 All right guys, we're gonna get started. Sorry for being late. So I have up here Elizabeth Irons. Is it Dr. Elizabeth Irons or Professor Elizabeth Irons? So Elizabeth is a cancer biologist by training. You got your PhD in cancer biology from University of London. And you did your postdoc and then became an assistant professor, which you're still at, at University of Miami School of Medicine. Got this correct? Cool. So in 2011, she started Science Exchange, then called The Bench, which was an online marketplace for outsourcing science experiments. And she was part of the Y Combinator Summer 2011 batch. And I think you might have been like the very first biotech-y type company in YC, right? That's where we started with you. And she's also the chairman of Reformer Therapeutics, which just went through YC as well, last batch. She's also a part-time partner at YC, which means in her free time, she helps all our biotech companies, which at this point is like hundreds. I don't know what the exact number is, but hundreds of biotech companies. So today I want to spend time talking about two things in particular. One is running a marketplace company, since that's what Science Exchange is. And two is getting your perspective as someone who's now advised hundreds of biotech companies, what you think about what's going on in the space. And in particular because I think there's an increase in slope of scientists coming into the field. So that'd be cool to talk about. So to get started, you're, like I said, you're a cancer biologist by training. You were, I believe, doing breast cancer research right after college, I guess. Why, how did you even, I mean, you're in kind of going down the academic route, like why, how did you even come upon startups? Where did that idea even come from? Yeah, yeah, it was kind of random, especially to start a technology company like Science Exchange rather than a biotech. So I was actually sort of, I guess, taking Y Combinator's advice without knowing about Y Combinator's advice to solve your own problem. So I was looking at the way that scientific research was evolving, and it was becoming much more specialized, much more multidisciplinary. Had to form these collaborations with other labs in order to access, you know, all of the latest technologies. And I experienced that myself and realized that it was incredibly inefficient. And so that process of how you find somebody to work with, how you evaluate the quality of their ability to do that specialized work, and then even just the infrastructure to actually work with them. So in biotech and in scientific research, the actual ownership of the scientific results is very important. And so just figuring out who is actually the owner of those results, who has the intellectual property, publication rights, all of those things is very difficult. And so I was talking about this with my co-founder and we sort of looked at other examples of industries that had solved this similar problem. So we're looking at Odesk and Elance at the time, which has now become Upwork. But that was really an example of you could solve this with a marketplace of experts. And that was the basis of Science Exchange. And it's never really kind of evolved much more beyond that in terms of the fundamental goal of what the company wants to achieve. Can you dive a little bit deeper there? So before, if I wanted to do some research and run an experiment, basically what it sounds like is this big disorganized process of I need 10 different things, super fragmented where this stuff is. Can you give it like, I guess, maybe give an example of related to the research you were doing of how it was so disorganized and then how science exchange now collapses all that into one place yeah definitely um super disorganized lots of fragmentation both in terms of who you work with but also how you find the information and in some cases the information is actually not really available so at the time when i was working as a breast cancer researcher i was running multiple different types of experiments. And one example was microarray analysis, which is definitely showing my time away from the lab because that's a very old school technique now. But at the time, it was what we used to analyze gene expression profiling. And we just didn't have the types of arrays that I wanted to use. And so I was trying to use Google and asking my friends and asking my old lab, can we use your infrastructure? And it was just incredibly inefficient. Also, actually, the inefficiency drives a lot of inefficiency in pricing in the market. So that was something that was a big learning point for me at that time point was you could actually create a company that had margin in that space because the market was so inefficient due to the lack of information. So, for example, I was seeing literally 10 times price differences for an equivalent experiment because people really just didn't have access to what should it actually cost. And we see that still on science exchange today is that when people go and look for multiple options and they actually don't have the barriers of being able to work with them, they see very frequently price differences that are quite extraordinary for the same results that could be generated. Got it. To just to take one step back, like when you were an academic, I don't know if that's a bad word, but when you're an academic. Maybe to some people. Was that a tough choice to just make that switch? Because I mean, you spent so many years studying for this one thing, and then you just are starting essentially what is a tech company that is not, you know, solving that one thing that you've spent up until that point in your entire life going after. Yeah. And actually, at the time, I didn't really have a lot of role models to sort of look to either. So I was in Miami, which was not a very startup place. And now it's actually, it's interesting to see the evolution, not just in the biotech world, but just generally in the startup ecosystem and all of the infrastructure that's been created. Like I think University of Miami even has now an incubator associated with the School of Medicine that helps people kind of create companies. I remember at the time having this idea for a company and I actually at the time having this idea for a company and I actually asked the university because I was a little bit worried if I have this idea while I'm still working there will they try to get some ownership stake from the idea because actually when you work in academia the results you generate don't belong to you so I think that's kind of a common misperception that you know universities actually own your work so it's often a challenge to spin those results out of the university so I was kind of worried well if I have this idea will will they own it and so I went and talked to the tech transfer office and they were just like whatever like go do whatever you want and it was it was kind of interesting and they didn't really have any guidance on how to do that but coincidentally I read about Y Combinator in Wired magazine so there was actually a Wired magazine interview all those years ago about Y Combinator and that was where I first learned about it and I was like wow that sounds super cool why don't we just like apply for it and we were total outsiders we didn't know anybody at Y Combinator we didn't know anybody that had gone through Y Combinator and we just applied with this idea and we're fortunate enough to get in. So you talked you talk a little bit about tech transfer I mean I do think that a lot of people in academia who are thinking about starting a startup do think that is a huge issue. And in some sense there are, from some universities we've had to work with, with some of our startups, it is a huge issue. What's your, do you have any advice for them on how to navigate that process? Like, should that be the barrier in your mind? Yeah, I do think it is an issue. If, particularly for scientific startups, because if you're trying to spin out actual research that was done already, and I think people often ask me, like, what's a good time to join Y Combinator if you're creating a science startup? And actually, I do think a good time to join is once you've already generated a lot of the R&D from grant-funded work, because you don't want to spend years and all of this money trying to you know pursue a research hypothesis you really want to be in the development phase and so I think that gets very difficult with a lot of the universities. I think some of them are trying to be more sort of founder friendly and create ways to more readily license the results that were generated, but it's still a significant obstacle. Do you see that academics, is the trend they're moving more into startups or what do you see, or maybe we just get the bubble view here in San Francisco, but I mean that's certainly the thing I see anecdotally. But do you think that's a growing trend overall? Yeah, I think people are more willing to just create companies, I think, generally. I think that's sort of a macro trend way beyond science. Really, just entrepreneurship has become this viable career path, and people are like, oh, yeah, I could be I could create a company. And it's just become a lot easier. Like the infrastructure that's been created through, you know, Y Combinator, but also through things like Stripe and things like AWS has made it so much easier for people to create companies. And I think in the science space, we're starting to see that. So obviously, science exchange is, you space we're starting to see that so obviously science exchange is you know one way to do that but there's some really interesting other evolutions like lab central and other lab space qb3 that provide you know lab space by the bench that's very cost effective and you can just rent you know one bench per month and be able to get started really cost effectively so those things are lowering the barriers to entry. And so I think academics, what I would like to see more of is how can we allow the true, I would say the analogy to what we've seen in the engineering world, the software engineering world is that the actual developers, the software developers, become the entrepreneurs, and they maintain that and really build this company around them. I think that's still very difficult for scientists, particularly PhD and postdoc scientists. So they actually make the discoveries in these labs, so they're the ones doing the work. But a lot of the time for them to actually be the ones to be the founder of the company is pretty challenging and usually what you'll see is a well-established famous PI so principal investigator kind of being a co-founder of that company but just to give it legitimacy and then that usually allows people to bring in funding but you know I think that's also kind of sad. Like, why do we have to have these sort of figureheads who own large stakes of these companies in order for them to get off the ground and get started? And I want to see that change. Yeah, that's something we, as you know, talk a lot about to people who, when they apply, and then we see that kind of structure, and then we try to go help them fix it essentially you don't want to lose too much of your company too soon um all right so uh science exchange um so you already described you know what problem you're trying to solve and then you've decided at this point in 2011 to start the startup um how did you get your first users and you have two sides of the marketplace so it's doubly hard for you how did you get your first users? And you have two sides of the marketplace, so it's doubly hard for you. How did you approach both sides? Yeah, I think marketplaces are really challenging because you don't control really the success of the business. I mean, you do, but you don't have – you're not just kind of building something and selling it. You have to then make sure you have the things to sell on the other side so it is really challenging I think when we first started we we were very MVP like in our approach so I think the first version of Science Exchange which as you mentioned was actually called The Bench which was renamed during Y Combinator thanks to Paul Graham's very good advice about our poor naming choice so yeah, we kind of threw up this website, and it was literally like, put what you need on this website, and then other people will see it, and they will give you options, which is, even at the time, as a scientist, I was like, I wouldn't use this. It seemed very quick to get something up and see who would test it out but it was obvious right from the start they would actually have to create you know a true marketplace and have supply that was visible and um and actually even even more so with science exchange what we had to do is create a curated marketplace that operates in the B2B sector. So what we had to do was build QAs, so quality assurance. We had to actually qualify and contract every provider that's available through the marketplace and then surface all of the results so that when somebody comes to the marketplace, they can literally find what they need and they can give them the information that's required for them to be able to quote accurately because they already know there's confidentiality agreements in place. And then they actually also had to manage those projects because these aren't just put it in your cart and check out. You have to actually manage a project with somebody who works in another part of the world from you. And so all this had to be built into the software. So that was many iterations of learning about where really is the value that comes from what we are providing. And I think marketplaces have evolved a lot from being predominantly consumer-focused. There's a lot of interesting B2B examples that are emerging. And Science Exchange obviously sits very firmly in that category. And what was more difficult supply or demand uh definitely demand so supply for us is and was pretty straightforward in the sense that um you know providers are looking for work and they, providers of these services, they, it's a very fast-growing industry, so also highly fragmented, and they actually also suffer the same challenges that the demand size has. So for them, if they want to sell one of their projects, they actually have to go and contract with, you know, each client they work with, which can take several months, and they have to go through quality assurance and get set up. And so for them, if they're on Science Exchange, now all of a sudden, every one of our clients can work with them instantly. So that's a huge value proposition. It took us a lot longer to convince the large players in the market, so the large CROs, that this would be something that they should be part of. but actually we have been able to do that as well. So I think one of the important lessons that we learned quickly was for this to be a really effective solution, it had to be the platform that was used for everything at the companies that were using it. So not just one-off come and shop on the marketplace, but actually use it as a system for managing all of the projects that are going on with the external partners. And in order to do that, you truly do have to have all of the major players that they want to work with on the platform. And I've seen other companies who have B2B marketplaces struggle a little bit where they haven't had the large established players on the supply side. And without that, I think it's very difficult to have an enterprise partnership that uses the platform. Do you remember the very first, on the demand side, the very first customer? What were they? Yeah, totally. What did they do? I remember actually, so our first customers were totally my friends who were scientists, who I would tell, if you have experiments you're running, you have to try out Science Exchange. And they actually, you know, it was great user feedback because for them, it did turn out to be, you know, this really high touch, very, you know, very concierge service. So they found great options that were really cost effective. So it wasn't like, you know, they just used it because we made them. But I think they taught us, you know, they just used it because we made them. But I think they taught us, you know, enormous amount. But I also remember the first customer that ever was just, you know, not related to us, like just came onto the platform and used it. And that was pretty exciting. We were actually in Italy at my brother's wedding. And I was like, oh, my God, somebody used our website. Yay. Stop the wedding. I need to check this out. Totally. Do you know, what was the experiment they were trying to run? Do you remember? It was microarray as well. Like this was popular at that time. Cool. So we talk a lot about at startup school product market fit. For you, what was that? Like when did you know you had that and how did you define it and what metrics were you looking at? Yeah, for us, I think we defined product market fit when we had our first large pharmaceutical client actually use the platform for whole sectors of their business. So for us, that was Amgen and they launched Science Exchange for all of their discovery research, which was a really big deal for us at the time and um and we sort of realized oh we actually have something that you know they do a lot of steps manually at the moment and this part this product actually automates you know automates providing all the information about who they should work with who um who is you know all of these new options for new types of technologies that they might be just exploring, and then even actually their business intelligence around looking at spend and supplier performance. So those things took us a while to kind of figure out where the core value props were. You know you're onto something when a big company who spent many years and money trying to build the that problem and solve that problem internally has all of a sudden just shifted to your product and it's starting to pay you for that that's a big thing not just in biotech but in general for yeah i think um yeah i mean much more so i think in software there's um it's really interesting because people always ask me today, like, who are your main competitors and how do you kind of think about competitive differentiation and all that? And still to me, like, our main competitor is status quo so that people still set up these, you know, really crazy SharePoint processes to manage their external vendors and I always go in there I'm like this is horrible like why are you doing this and um and you know big companies they just love SharePoint they're like oh yeah my SharePoint site I have created all of these like really Byzantine processes which only apply to like five vendors I work with and everyone else has to go through some other crazy process. And I'm like, okay, but you can just transition all of that onto this platform. And it's always this interesting kind of battle of who set up that process, because trying to convince them that the software automates all that hard work is often actually one of our biggest challenges. So one of the things I really love that you're doing, and announced a long time ago, was the reproducibility initiative. So the idea that it seems obvious to do, which is, you know, if you run an experiment and you publish results, someone else should be able to reproduce it to validate that it's being done. So can you talk a little bit about why you're doing that, what you're doing, and why has this never been done? Is it just been a money problem or is it something that only science and exchange actually can do because you have the process in place? Yeah, the reproducibility initiative is, I still think it's a really cool project. It's still very controversial even years later. Oh, yeah. Why is it controversial? Oh, my God, it's still so controversial. It's controversial because of a lot of reasons. I think the main reason is that people are not sure of the value of it, which I think is legitimate. Like I think there's still a question of how efficient is it to replicate experiments. And that was actually, you know, when you say is it science exchange was the only way we could do it like our our hypothesis was that yeah having a network where people already had all of the you know right assays or the right infrastructure or the right animal model would be the only way that was actually practically possible to do it um previously obviously people didn't have that they had that same challenge of, I have to go find somebody who has that same animal model or has that same instrument, and then I have to convince them and contract them and all that kind of stuff. So yeah, the Reproducibility Initiative actually is kind of science exchanges, part of our mission to improve the quality and efficiency of scientific research. And that project is quite broad. So it covers both things like antibody validation, which we've done a lot of, so reagent validation, things like reanalysis of epidemiology results. So we worked with the Gates Foundation to do that. And then the projects that we're most well known for, which is actually replicating published results. And we do that both for the pharmaceutical industry, which is way easier and way less controversial because they just come and say, hey, I'm interested in this result. And then we quickly find a facility that can replicate the key results and provide those back to them. However, the Cancer Biology Reproducibility Project and the Prostate Cancer Foundation Project are the two ones that people have followed the most, which is public replications, where we've actually published the replication studies. And that's controversial because people don't generally do this. So I think it goes against the cultural norm of really not publishing replication studies. I also think people are really afraid and they sort of mix up failed replication with things like fraud. So people are really afraid that if their result is found to be non-reproducible, that that will have a negative impact on their career, to be non-reproducible that will have a negative impact on their career, which I think is probably true, but it shouldn't be. So the reality is that the results that have been generated show that most published results are not reproducible. So if that's true, then we should try to understand that and study it, which is my opinion as a scientist, like we should study the science behind why is this the case rather than try to go after individual people and say like, oh, your science is horrible, because clearly that's not the case. Clearly it's that most things are not reproducible when they're published because of a variety of complex factors of which we've started to unpack, but I think there's still a lot of work to do. What are the top two complex factors? So I think the main reason that I've seen things are not reproducible is the quality of assay validation. So it's really interesting when you go and talk to pharmaceutical companies because they also transfer experiments. So they replicate experiments in the sense that they'll set something up at their facility and then they'll outsource to a CRO to run that assay for them over and over again. And they call it tech transfer or assay transfer. And that process is incredibly efficient. They can do this very easily and it's got a high probability of working. And so when you look at that I don't think it's much different than if you take a published result and you try and rerun that assay in another lab but the main difference is that when you work in a pharmaceutical company you have SOPs you have everything documented you look at assay variability you look at positive and negative controls there's just a lot more actual validation of the type, the actual experimental assay that's used before it's transferred. And that's very different than in academia. So in academia, you tend to take, oh yeah, I've got this animal model in my lab, or I've got this cell line in my lab, I'm just going to run this experiment. And hopefully you include positive and negative control, but maybe not. And you also don't look at things like variability of the assay, reproducibility of the assay. And I think a lot of what we see in published results is likely to be noise rather than true experimental effects. And so until we kind of understand that more, we will have an issue with reproducing those results. That's sort of scary. You're saving the world, so save us from this problem. So going back to Science Exchange, what is the biggest challenge as a CEO of a marketplace company that you have today? And how has that challenge morphed over time um like what was the biggest challenge when you just started to what is the biggest challenge today oh yeah i'm sure like so many challenges along the way um when we first started science exchange the biggest challenge was can we get anybody to use it i think that was I think that was kind of the first challenge. And then can we build something where the very conservative pharmaceutical industry will use it? And that was important for us because when you look at spend breakdown, the market is predominantly for outsourced research focused in the pharmaceutical industry so that they control over $100 billion of spend per year. And so if we couldn't get them to use the platform, we would have a lot of issue with really creating a truly large company. Today I think our biggest issues are more around scaling. So how do we – we're still only 85 people. We've just signed a couple of extremely large partnerships. And so we are really trying to execute against some pretty tight deadlines with staff that are focused on, you know, just one of these large integrations. you know, just one of these large integrations. And so trying to kind of make sure that we don't take on too much while also realizing there's enormous opportunity. So we don't want to sort of overlook that. So I think just staying focused, executing on the right things and being really disciplined about that, which is always really hard when you have, when you have multiple opportunities that you can go after. I think that discipline is incredibly important. Yeah. Focus is really hard, especially as you get more employees and you get more funding and stuff like that. So I want to switch gears a little bit and talk about biotech and startups. As we talked about earlier, there has been this implosion of biotech startups recently, especially in Silicon Valley. Why do you think that is? What are the causes for this? Yeah, the biotech industry is so interesting right now. And it's actually amazing. I love, it's not just here in Silicon Valley, it's everywhere. So the UK, Cambridge, San Diego, everywhere. There's like lots and lots of biotech startups. And I think it's a really cool time for that sector of the industry. It's, I think, driven by a couple of things. One, capital. So access to capital is unprecedented. And the amount of capital that's going into biotech is definitely unprecedented. There's also a sort of interesting evolution in terms of where biology is in terms of the actual therapeutic modalities that are available. So I'm not sure that people sort of who are outside the industry may not kind of recognize this as a real turning point for biotech. So up until very recently, there was really only small molecule inhibitors. And then after that, there was Genentech and Amgen. So there was actual biologics, antibodies and proteins. But just in the last year, we had gene therapies approved. We had cell-based therapies approved. We had RNAi approved as actual marketable products for the first time. So all of a sudden, you have this huge window opened up for you and the different types of approaches you can take that are viable to create a commercial product. So I think the science has caught up to a point where there's just some phenomenal opportunities to tackle diseases in a way that was not possible previously. Interesting. Sort of like Moore's Law in biotech. Yeah, it's a really, really exciting time. And there's also, I think, a convergence on really a critical mass of people looking at, okay, I have this experience in the pharmaceutical industry, I'm going to go into the biotech industry. So again, just so many people with really great scientific experience, with true experience of bringing, not from academia, actually an industry bringing drugs to market, are now going into biotech, and they're taking that risk and founding companies and being early employees in these five person companies. And I never had seen that previously. I think that's a new phenomenon as well. So you sit in this cool intersection of, you've built a software company, a marketplace software company, and that intersects with biotech. And then on the same, you have the perspective of advising lots of more true, I guess, biotech companies. What's the difference between biotech and software? It's so different. In terms of running the startup itself. Yeah, it's really different. I think in some ways, you know. Or let me rephrase the question. How is it the same? Are there any similarities? I think it's the same? Are there any similarities? I think it's the same in terms of people, focus, funding, all of those things are kind of the same. So like trying to find the right people and retain them, building a good culture, all of those things. been able to do a great job of having companies across different sectors because of that focus on really learning from successful entrepreneurs so big lessons about creating a company and not so much about the very you know minute tactical details biotechs are different because you can't really change the outcome of the science like the science is the science so either it works or it doesn't work and that's very different than software where you can actually pivot around and keep developing your product and keep getting product market fit. With science, it's about key milestones that demonstrate real inflection points in terms of mitigating the risk of the drug working so actually having like different different stages along the development path where you know you've eventually got to a point where you demonstrate in a clinical trial that your drug is effective at you know treating the disease that you're trying to treat. What does an MVP mean in biotech? Yeah, I think MVP in biotech is, I don't even, I don't know if there is an MVP. So, you know, for a biotech company that's in the therapeutic space, you know, really you're not going to have any commercial revenue until you have an approved product that is sold on the market, which actually most biotechs never have. So most biotechs go through, you know, a process of developing new therapies and they do partnerships with large companies that fund, you know, the expensive clinical development of those products. And so that's really where a lot of them end up exiting. So they're either acquired or they sell or partner that product in early clinical development. We're starting to see, which I think is really cool, some biotech companies actually commercialize their own products now. And that was something that didn't happen for quite a long time. So just recently there's several companies that are actually selling their product themselves, so building their own sales force and distribution channels and those challenges are really interesting. Mostly those companies are going after rare diseases where you can go after key opinion leaders and have a really efficient sales channel. But it's still really exciting to see them do that. That's great. Well, let me actually double click on that point you made. So essentially what you're saying is that I can bring my product to market without getting acquired, which used to be the case. At that specific juncture, what has changed that has allowed that to happen? Yeah, that's a good question. I think capital, so access to capital is really important, that the companies can actually access enough capital to get all the way through to approval. I also think the FDA has done some really interesting work trying to come up with reasonable clinical development strategies for particularly rare diseases where companies can actually get registration with a fairly small trial. So that makes it actually feasible for a small company to be able to do that. And then in terms of distribution, I do think that strategy of just building really strong patient advocacy networks, working with the key opinion leaders in the community through the hospitals that these patients are treated at, provides a way to distribute that. In the past, I think if it's a blockbuster indication, it becomes very challenging. Like you have to build a huge sales force. You have to go and kind of sell this drug with sort of old school pharmaceutical sales reps. It's not easy to do that. I also see this proliferation of startups, maybe actually in the vein of science exchange, where you're helping try to speed up like experiments, you're helping speed up trials, you're helping speed up getting through the FDA process. And so that may be helping a little bit as well. Yeah, definitely. Like we've funded some really interesting companies in this space that kind of put in place, for example, regulatory infrastructure for the FDA. So the expertise is out there and people are starting to productize that in a way that maybe wasn't available previously. So people would have to go and hire a regulatory consultant that would be very expensive, literally like more than $100,000 to come up with your FDA strategy. And now there are companies that you can actually go and work with them to provide the productized version of that process. So Enzyme is the company that Y Combinator funded, which I think is super interesting. And all of these are just enabling technologies that will hopefully provide that infrastructure similar to what we've seen in in the software space great so um you've now like we said before advised and you've mentored hundreds of biotech founders at this point what are some of the common mistakes you've seen biotech founders make and what are the ones that you should you just need like what do you avoid at all costs because they're so detrimental yeah um i mean i think like our biotech founders first of all are really amazing because they are often those people who have taken that risk and have kind of stepped out of academia or other very established careers and said, I'm going to go do this startup. And there isn't really that many role models for me to follow or success stories for me to follow. So I think they themselves are incredibly impressive. And often I do office hours with them and I'm like, I'm just learning from them. It's actually really, really cool. But I think one mistake I have seen people make is just, and I think all startup founders kind of do this, is not doing the killer experiment, not actually just cutting to the chase and saying, okay, these are just the minimal things I need to do to truly answer the question. And you almost don't want to do it because if it doesn't work, the company is kind of dead and I sort of a lot of the time push our companies a little bit I'm like but why haven't you done that experiment like that experiment would tell you you know today if this is going to work or not and I think it's just it's hard when it's your own company to kind of do that but the sooner you do it the more the sooner you have enough money to kind of work on something else because like we talked about with science if you can't get the actual science to work you you know really are in a difficult position so say you're a scientist or you're an academic who's looking to get into startups um i think a lot of people still think maybe you do you need some kind of business co-founder to help me do X, Y, and Z. What do you think about that? And, you know, should that be a goal? No, I don't think that should be a goal. I think I actually do have a business co-founder. So you would probably be mad that I say that. And he's great. And I literally couldn't have built Science Exchange without him. But not because of his business background, right? Like, because he's a great co-founder. Because he's, like, hustles and figures stuff out. And we work well together. I think business, so much of it is just common sense. Like, I used to get so, you you know concerned that I didn't have this finance background I didn't know how to read like all of the income statements and all that and then I realized after a while okay I'm just going to sit down with my business co-founder and he's going to teach me and so he taught me and then I was like oh it's so obvious like it's not it's definitely not rocket science so I think I think the the business side you know you really as a CEO and when you grow the company one of the key skills is actually recognizing the areas that you're good at and bad at and where you should be investing and bringing in top talent and so for us we we recently actually hired a CFO so a year ago we hired a CFO and that's been, I think, good for the company but also good from a perception perspective. So as a company reaches a growth stage, actually having that sort of legitimate CFO person does help you. But from like a starting out, I mean starting out you should just find people who really want to solve the same problem as you and really care about it. And also who you really like working with, because that's by far the most important thing. On the flip side, if you're not, if you're not a scientist, and let's say you're a programmer, but you're interested in getting into biotech, what, what should you do? Like, should I go back to school, get my PhD? Like, what's the potential path for me? That's a good question. You know, part of me thinks, like, you should go back to school. Like, I think there is this, there's a lot of interest from Silicon Valley in biotech. Like, people are super interested in just like even just hacking themselves like this whole kind of movement around like you know really personalized like understanding all of your own biology i think it's really cool and i by the way do think that the future of biotech and where i always think about for reformer and and the work that we are doing is I believe that the future will definitely involve a strong component of user pays. So I think the products that are developed will have to be in indications that the patients are actually willing to pay for. And there's a lot of research at the moment that's in areas which, you know, I think are potentially problematic because they're sort of diseases where people are not really that sick or they don't really feel sick. And so getting them to adhere to those medications, very, very challenging. In contrast, like things like migraine drugs, actually Amgen's migraine drug has outperformed its predictions in the market by 10 times. And I think that's because people genuinely go to the doctor because they are debilitated by migraines and they will pay for those drugs. So I think trying to think about ways that you can focus on users is good. So anyway, to go back to the question, because I got sidetracked, about should computer programmers, what should they do? I think for biology and actual scientific research, there is this element of just getting in the lab and truly understanding how experiments are designed and how to interpret them, which I don't know that you can just learn from not doing. But then there is like a lot of use for, for example, bioinformatics and other analysis tools and platforms where people can get involved without having lab experience. And we do have some successful companies in Y Combinator that are founded by non-scientific founders that are in the biotech space. So Notable Labs is one that I think is incredibly impressive. The founders have basically self-taught themselves everything about, you know, the sector that they're in. And they're super smart and hungry. And straight away when I interviewed them, I was like, yeah, they know just as much as PhDs who work in the space. So two more questions. One is just going back to Science Exchange for a minute. Looking back, of all the decisions you've made, what's in the early days, aside from just starting the startup itself, that's obviously very critical, but what's a decision you made where you're looking back, you're like, that was a game changer, that was an inflection point in my business? Wow, that is a good question. Game changer. Actually, I think the decision to do the reproducibility initiative was a game changer and it was non-obvious so in some ways the reproducibility initiative goes against focus it was kind of a distraction like okay we're going to do this project but it's not directly related to just growing the marketplace although the marketplace was used to run the project. But it was so timely and so high profile that it did change the branding and the opportunities for Science Exchange in a way that we never expected. And it did open all of the doors that eventually led to our pharmaceutical partnerships, to really like a lot of the success of Science Exchange. So that was probably one example huh interesting i did not know it it kind of when i saw it i was like oh wow science exchange i knew it could be big but it could be like this much bigger because it just showed the you know what you could do with it okay last question is uh it's my always my favorite question um in a hundred years from now i mean you're, you've been around for eight years, seven, eight years now. But in 100 years from now, what do you think science exchange will be? Yeah, that is such an interesting question. Because I think if you just think about what the world will be like in 100 years from now, I'm not sure any of us have a good answer. But, you know, I do think that 100 years ago, the scientific method existed, and people were, you know, doing scientific research. And I think scientific research will exist 100 years from now. So science exchange has always been extremely purpose driven. So, you know, the company's purpose is to enable scientific breakthroughs through connections. And so I think whatever the world looks like at that time, that's, you know, what Science Exchange will be doing. And hopefully we are just providing that infrastructure that enables people to instantly work with whoever they need to collaborate with in order to make these scientific breakthroughs happen. It's crazy to think the scientific method was only discovered, invented, or what do you want to call it, just not long ago, which created this explosion of science in general. OK, cool. Well, that's all the questions I have. Any questions from the audience? Back there. You repeat it. Given that you've touched on reproducibility several times now, and one of the problems is that we use statistical methods to show correlation on causality, how open do you think the industry is in terms of taking newer approaches that might tend towards causality as a research methodology? So the question is about whether we should look at new approaches to, instead of just looking at correlations, to look for causality. Especially in a space with unknown unknowns. Especially in a space with unknown unknowns. So I'm a biologist by training, so I tend to think that, you know, we're not just looking at correlations, we try to design experiments that allow us to change something in the system that is a controlled system and then read an output from that and determine whether that fits of our hypothesis that we changed something and it has therefore had this downstream impact. I think there's really interesting work that's been done on correlations, particularly with real-world data, so trying to look for ways that we can actually use humans in the wild to examine new theories that we have and then apply those back into the lab. But at a basic level, when you're in the lab, you are kind of using model systems to try to reduce the unknown unknowns so that you can test specific theories. Thank you. You talked about how you basically went from an idea to what was basically a minimal viable product in a very short space of time. What were the key steps for you to do that? Yeah, so the question is about going from an idea to an MVP in a short space of time and the steps that are required to do that. And for us, actually, that was one of the lessons that I really took when I started Science Exchange was try to do something really quickly and get it off the ground because I see a lot of people start companies and they have a lot of enthusiasm at the start and then they're also working like full-time jobs and trying to do this on the side and the progress you make obviously is limited because you just don't have the the time to put into it so we are possible I think it's it's really great if you can kind of just take time out to say okay I'm going to do like Y Combinator or something for three months and really launch the company so for us we literally had the idea and then it was the I think it was February 2011 and we kind of were talking about different ideas. And then we thought, this is really a good idea. And so then we applied to Y Combinator. So we made this video. And it was just me and my co-founder. We had nothing. And then actually Y Combinator, Alexis Ohanian, he Skyped me and he said, you're not going to get in. And I was like oh no why and he was like because you don't have a technical co-founder and you really need a technical co-founder and so we then spoke to all of our friends and we found a technical co-founder and this was all just in like two weeks and then we built actually a really hacked together version of the MVP and we came to our interview and we had already got something kind of, it was very basic, but we had something. And then we got in and we moved out here in May. And it was three months of just, okay, now let's get that launched. And we were actually doing transactions off platform. So we actually were talking with all of our scientists and I was traveling a lot talking to you know all of the people who I could get to use the product so we actually did hundreds of thousands of dollars of transactions during that time just to prove that we understood the demand and the supply side and started to build you know what would become the product. that to build what would become the product. So you mentioned that in the case of getting a PhD or something like that, going back to school would not be a main thing that you might need to do. But if you're going into something like biotech, and I guess this is for both you and her, how seriously do you take an application, especially in biotech, where there's no doctor or there's nobody from an established medical university with an established degree? And then the second part is, then when you go and talk to other scientists, the scientific community, how seriously would they take you if you do not have those credentials on paper? Yeah, so the question is about the importance of credentials in the biotech space. And I think credentials are very important. So if you can have credentials in the space, it's going to give you obviously a huge advantage. But in saying that, I don't think it's... We have examples where people have been successful without that. And how they were successful is by being incredibly um credible themselves when you actually interview them so in the example of notable labs when i interviewed matt and pete they just had researched everything about the space like they'd read every scientific paper they knew in depth about cancer stem cells about the limitations about the assays that they wanted to use and I I met with them much longer than I would have would have if I had a surrogate which would be the credential of them having a PhD from a top university but by talking to them it was clear that they did understand the space and that they were incredibly motivated due to a family connection to really try to put something in place that could help solve this issue which was in the case of them they were looking for new therapeutics for glioblastoma and so I think if you are not a scientist having a personal driver of why you're doing this actually can serve as a surrogate to get you in the door so it can get you meetings with top scientists it can get you meetings with patient advocacy groups that can help you sort of get the company started so if your purpose is strong and a beneficial article that can compensate for that I think it can I think if you're building a biotech company, you obviously have to build a scientific team, and then you'll end up with PhDs in your team, but you can be a co-founder without a PhD. Thank you. In this process of the idea to, like I said, the MVP coming here, when did you decide to leave the university? So the question is about when did I decide to leave the university. So I was so fortunate when I started Science Exchange, and I think a lot of people don't realize how difficult, and I totally don't take this for granted, like when people ask me about our journey of starting Science Exchange, this for granted like when people ask me about our journey of starting science exchange I think we had you know enormous luck in the sense that my boss was the dean of medicine at the university of Miami and he was incredibly supportive of science exchange so he thought it was a great idea he thought that if you know if I didn't do it then like somebody else would do it and so he actually let me take three months off to go and do this and he looked after my lab for me while I was gone and then once we're out here it was clear that the idea was going to be successful and we raised funding straight out of YC and so I decided I'm not going to go back and I was actually nervous about telling him I wasn't going to go back but he was so amazing about it he was just like yeah no it's doing great like I knew it would be a great success and and so having that mentor who gave me that opportunity I just I think not many people get that especially in academia like that's actually again where I sometimes have this frustration of I hear the opposite of PhD students and postdocs. They tell me, oh, my boss just really didn't want me to leave, like really didn't want me to start a company, actively worked against me rather than helped me. And I think about my experience and how different it would have been if I didn't have his support. All right, last question. Right here. How exactly did you match the expectations from both sides? Like what, you know, the demand side expected out of the supply and the supply, like the accession people started to control the quality perception from both sides? Yeah, so the question's about quality control in a two-sided marketplace. So for us, quality control is incredibly important and actually is one of the core value propositions of Science Exchange. So we qualify all suppliers before they're available through the marketplace and then we also have a continuous monitoring process where we actually look at performance of every single transaction. So we have more data on performance than anybody else and we can actually say with certainty, well, at least more certainty than other people, this provider will likely do a very good job on this type of experiment. We also put in place the way our actual platform is structured. There's a clear outline of the deliverables that are generated. the expectations are set up front, and I think a really interesting stat that we track closely is Science Exchange's net promoter score is 78, and our supplier's net promoter score is 67, and the industry average is zero. So we think that's amazing because it's the same suppliers, but when used through the platform, they perform much better. And I think the reason is because it's structured and it's clearly outlined what's going to be delivered. And then there's an expectation that if you don't perform, that information will actually be available to everyone else when they're making a decision. So it becomes a very strong incentive for people to perform and make sure that they're delivering what they agreed upon. All right. Thank you so much Elizabeth. Sure. Thank you. Thank you everyone. you