 Thank you for coming today. My name is Adora. I'm one of the partners here at Y Combinator. And today we're going to talk with, have a conversation with Ushma Garg, who's the CEO and founder of Gobble, which creates and delivers 15-minute pan dinners to you. I am personally a happy customer. It's great for people who don't have time to do grocery shopping, prep ingredients, actually cook, and then clean up afterwards. So Gobble started in 2011, and while it's doing pretty well today, it's growing around 100 million revenue per week, I believe. It's gone through its many ups and downs. And so with Yushma today, I wanted to talk to her about a couple things. One is evolution of her business. She's mostly been in the food business, but is the evolution of her business. She's mostly been in the food business, but it's iterated her business model many times, and so I think it'd be interesting to talk about that. And then two is something she's an expert in, which is grit and determination. I think she's one of the few people that I've seen that just never gives up. And so I think grit and determination are one of the qualities many people think they have, but when shit hits the fan, things start to fall apart. And so I think it's also interesting to talk about. So with that, I would love to welcome Ushma to the stage. Thank you. Thanks for having me. Thanks. So welcome, Ishma. Thank you for having me. Thank you for coming. So maybe we can just briefly start from the very beginning. You were a student at Stanford, and I believe you started your first company then, which was, correct me if I got this wrong, is you helped students get jobs at banks and other companies. Yes. So can you say, obviously that didn't work out, and you did Gobble instead, but can you explain why that didn't work out and what made you think that you should just move on from that idea? Sure. So back when I was at Stanford, I started this company out of my dorm room. And fun visual is that I had this like, you know, 150, 200 square foot room, like with no space. And I lofted my bed like five inches from the ceiling and stuffed some like Ikea desks under my bed. We could only fit like three desks in there. I was a junior, so I hired all these freshmen, really smart freshmen as interns, and got a boyfriend so I could sleep somewhere else for the business. Joking. And then our dorm room became our office. And I hid the key in the girls' bathroom. And people would come between class and get the key from my pink shower caddy. And then go into my dorm room and work on our startup. So that was my first company in NAPA. And the idea was to help students get jobs. I was head of this group, Stanford Women in Business. We were matching people to banks and law firms and consulting firms. And I worked on that for three years. I bootstrapped it and no one would fund me. They told me the idea was too niche or what have you. But really, no one was using LinkedIn at the time. And all of these students are looking for work. So I thought that we could really be the LinkedIn for students. And it was all centered around their interests and student groups. Long story short, the idea was working and we were making money. Like these companies would write us $20,000, $25,000 checks for annual subscriptions to my recruiting website. And it was a two-sided marketplace. So what really happened is, first of all, I poured everything I had into the business. And my health went down the drain, which later leads to gobble. leads to gobble. But what ended up happening is I learned the hard lesson that whoever pays you kind of owns you and determines how your product evolves. So these banks and consulting firms and all of them were paying me and they wanted to recruit students based on quotas, based on like their GPA or their race or their, you know, other parts of their background that didn't really have to do with if they were a good cultural match. So anyways, I was making money, but the mission and the initial like vision and all of that of the business of helping people find good jobs wasn't true anymore so I actually uh got to a very dark place and ended up selling the business so it could have worked but the less and it could have worked longer term but it wasn't the business I initially intended and I'm not the kind of person who you know was just going to do something to make money I want to do something that I believe in how did you who did you sell it to so in our third year we were taking off with law firms there are thousands of law firms and only tens of banks on wall street and so I sold it to a company called law works and basically they're they're recruiting company and software and they wanted to add community to their offering. At that time, it was like 2010, and social and communities and all of that were not as common as they are now. So you mentioned briefly, this is a good transition into maybe talking about Gobble in the beginning. Your health was going down the drain. How did that actually turn into Gobble itself? Yeah. I'm sure as you all are too familiar with, starting a company, at least, especially in the first thousand days is very, very lonely. Very few people believe in the idea outside of yourself. And most people think you're crazy. Most people don't care about you. And so you're the only thing that keeps yourself going. And maybe your co-founder, your partner, but your partner is sick of hearing about it. And your co-founder may or may not work out. So there's lots of loneliness. And basically, I became just very insular. I stopped visiting my family and my friends. I was working on the business, but I was staying up too late and then waking up too late and then just eating like all this takeout and soda. And I think it not only affects your physical health and I gained a lot of weight, but it also affects your mental health. So all of that came to a head when my dad insisted on visiting. And I was here in California. My parents are in Texas. And my dad is the head of nutrition at UT Southwestern in Texas. So he's spent 30 years of his life studying diabetes, obesity, and nutrition. And then at home, he would make sure we all ate home-cooked food and real good food. And your parents always know when something's wrong. You can't lie to them. So it's just a matter of time. So anyways, he got on a plane. Actually, first he cooked for three days and made all of this home-cooked Indian food, stuffed it in these international suitcases that were nicely packed and checked in. Everything's in foil and Ziplocs and whatever. Flew here to California to my little dingy studio apartment and without even saying hello, comes in the apartment, goes to the fridge and starts stuffing the food in the fridge. goes to the fridge and starts like stuffing the food in the fridge. And it just showed like his anger and sadness and emotion about like me not taking care of myself and how bad things had gotten. And he warmed a little plate of some subzi, which is like a vegetable Indian dish with some bread and rice, and just put it in front of me. I had this like IKEA two-person dining table in a corner. And I ate this first bite and I just like started crying uncontrollably because the food was so good. And it showed me that I like that's how much I had lost. And it wasn't just nutrition. It was like a sense of self and being. And that's really easy to do. And it wasn't just nutrition. It was like a sense of self and being. And that's really easy to do. And so anyways, that first bite of my dad's home cooking inspired Gobble. And that moment was when I decided that a marketplace for people to create home cooked meals and sell it on the marketplace. So that was 2011. And then I believe then one year later, you turned it into, if I have this written down, catering. Yes. And then a year later, it was personalized dinner service. And then to what it is pretty much what is today, 10 to 15 minute dinner kits. So maybe you could start off with, if you remember your one liner for each four of those business models to help us distinguish the difference between those four. Absolutely. I definitely remember the first one because it, it's what I raised our seed round off of. So we started after I ate that food, I wanted to replicate my dad in the Bay Area. And I posted on Craigslist and looked for moms or dads that would cook for me. Anyway, the way that we described the idea, it ultimately became a marketplace for personal chefs and families. And we described it as peer-to-peer lasagna. And everyone remembered that and just said it. And it was catchy and weird. and the peer-to-peer economy was really hot at the time Airbnb was just coming up Etsy was coming up and there were all these like rental or sharing startups in 2010 to 2012 so that's how we described the marketplace catering was just like home-cooked food for office. The personalized dinner service was exactly that. It was meals personalized exactly to your tastes. And our current dinner kits we describe as just as a meal prep service, 15-minute one pan cooking. So everyone who built the product always remembers their very first user who wasn't their mom or dad or family. Do you remember that person and what was he or she like? Yeah. So recently I met one of our very first like 10 users. The guy's name is Sheil Tile. And it's really funny. I actually met him and he was a user of ours in 2011 so now it's some seven eight years later um i met him a few weeks ago at a wedding in new york and he was like are you ushma yeah and um he's like i used to eat your food and he you know your product goes through so many iterations that when someone remembers, like, the first website of yours and all that, those bugs and things, it's really special. He was a Stanford student. And he would email us, like, pages of feedback, you know, every time he tried the food. And so it was kind of the canonical early adopter that's someone who really wants to work with you and who wants to help improve your company and like make it good for them and for everybody else so in the beginning you also did a lot of unscalable things to get users I read you you did promo cards everywhere you went to Starbucks and I guess bothered people to order from Gobble. So a lot of those things probably didn't work, but anything that you remember that actually worked? Yeah. There are two things that worked. And I was reflecting on this. One of them is, I guess the things that work is when you're just starting out, you can't throw a million dollars into Facebook ads in one week. But it doesn't also work to just like talk to 10 individuals. That's too unscalable. So it's all about reaching like micro groups. One thing I did is I would go to my favorite, I went to all my favorite shops, like coffee shops, restaurants, laundromats, whatever. and I actually bought card holders on on like a whatever equipment website and made promo cards that were business card size and it said like two free dinners gobble.com and it and it had the restaurant's name on the back one of the first valuable innovations or features that we released into our product was the ability to accept promo codes because attribution of your growth is extremely important from day one or else I can't tell you what's working or not working. So there's zombie runners on California Avenue. It's this coffee shop. And it's inside a running store that used to be a movie theater. It's very weird. You should go there. It's my favorite coffee shop. And so they put a little thing at their register and it turned out to be more effective than the nail salons, the laundromats, anything else. Another YC company, Order Ahead, actually, for a while was very successful with coffee shops and promos and ordering at coffee shops. very successful with coffee shops and promos and ordering at coffee shops. One other thing was I spoke to as many like meetup groups or mom's groups and neighborhood groups as possible. And I would get them, I would always try to have an offer that was, I tested offers and I knew what would work. So every single one of them would send my offer on their email list. And it had to be an email with your offer to a group and that converted. The attribution point is very, I think, key there, which is even if you're doing a spray and pray method of just like, everyone use me, at least you know when they come in the door where they actually call you. Absolutely. Yes. Cool. So again, going back to the evolution of the business at what point in each of the business models did you realize oh this isn't it i gotta think of something else right the funny thing is that um and so first of all we talked about these business models all of that was going on for from 2011 to 2014 so between three and a half years, which is still roughly that thousand days of finding product market fit, we had four different iterations to the product. And this is a minor little point, but I know that I think Michael Seibel spoke recently and he said that he talked about the difference between pivoting and iterating. And I thought that was really important because people say gobble pivoted, but we didn't pivot. We didn't turn into some like, you know, online video game. We just iterated and then found success. So I think that nuance is important because pivoting, I think you don't carry a lot of your learnings with you. Iterating is always building on your previous learnings. So with these business models and different iterations and launches, they all failed for different reasons. We had a marketplace first and everyone loved the food because it was this authentic, small batch, home-cooked food from like real people, Italian grandmas and Mexican moms and like Ethiopian chefs and things and food you can't get anywhere else. That's not like ruined by capitalism, I guess. Anyways, that food wasn't scalable. So we started getting success with that marketplace idea. But when I asked this like Italian mom in San Carlos to make me 200 of her lasagna when she used to make 20 a day, it wasn't fun anymore. And she didn't want to make 200. And she wasn't a caterer. So that that model, you know, Airbnb is a peer to peer model that can scale and it's sharing an asset, it's sharing a space. This is a peer-to-peer model that has a lot of like break points at scale of quality, time, capacity, and so on. So that's why the marketplace model didn't work. We were supply constrained, not by the number of chefs, but by the juice we could squeeze from each of our SKUs on the marketplace. Then we pivoted to catering because we had built that marketplace with seed funding. And we were, we maybe had like a half a year of money left or something, but one of our investors was very insistent that we pad our growth with money and we do something that'll definitely make us money. And so I went into the catering world. Frankly, to me, I think it's very easy. And I didn't really want to do it. You just get, we got like box.net and Pinterest and these companies signed on and they rarely quit. And so you're just making this money in the background. We did that. We made good money and we showed growth. But the problem is that when we went to raise Series A, the investors asked, how much of your money is from families and the model you're pitching? And how much of your money is from catering and from enterprise? And at that point, some 75% was from enterprise. Because when you do something like that, like the previous startup lesson we learned, all your attention goes to what's giving you the most money. And so that really sucked. Because unless I wanted to build a catering business, then I wasn't going to get funding. So we were in a pinch then. And I had to raise a bridge round and wind down the catering business, which was hugely unpopular because we were making lots of money, but it wasn't my long-term vision. The vision was that people don't have access to this home-cooked food and I wanted to crack it and figure it out and give it to everyone. So we wound that down because it wasn't part of the long-term vision. The third, so then we focus on this personalized dinner service. I still today think that the power of personalization, what Amazon brings to e-commerce, and what Netflix and Spotify bring to movies and music, that level of personalization has not taken off in food. And just like Google with search, the company that cracks it in food, I think will be like the long-term winner and have all these learnings built on top of each other to where you build a long-term sustainable advantage. So that's what we did with that personalized dinner service. We took these chefs and then we started using restaurants and caterers. And we focused on the technology because that's the talent that we had in our headquarters. We had engineers and product people. So we focused on the tech to match, to take, we allowed people to give us whatever taste they wanted. So we ended up getting like thousands of picky eaters and people who like didn't eat nightshades and they were vegan, but they still didn't like olives and lettuce and like crazy stuff. And no matter what your tastes were, I said I would feed you. And so anyway, that model really stretched our technology and by doing the hard thing we learned. If you're a vegan and don't like lettuce, what are you eating? I know. I don't know. Like lots of beans. So you move the business model a little bit each time or quite a bit actually. Yes. And so one of the difficult things in doing that is taking the risk and bringing down your current business for hopefully future success and that i think a lot of people actually don't do that because it's very very scary um they just try keep pushing the current model um trying to make it work so was it scary for you and like what was your thought process and like actually just saying nope not going to do with enterprise catering anymore, even though it's making tons of money. Right. It was it was so scary. It was really scary. And and actually some of our investors would like call me into their office and just use it as like me as a punching bag, you know, and like sit down at their reclaimed wood table in their kitchenette or something. And they would like, I'd be sitting and I'd stand up and they'd be like, and every time there's new startups coming up, the grass is always greener because the investors know all your problems and they don't know any of the other problems. So anyway, so they would be like, this company Munchery is starting and this company Order Ahead is starting and all these companies are starting and like what are you doing and it was it was much louder and much worse than that um and uh and so but you know I have found I think that's what you mentioned earlier about the grit and determination I don't know if it's learned or what it is. Over so many years, I have found that I cannot listen to anything. There's nothing more loud than like my gut. And it just when you know something and you've been in it for three years or thousands of days, you can't avoid it. You know what you have to do. Other people think about you like 1% of the year and just in the one hour meeting. And so I think early on, we put a lot of weight into investor meetings, even into YC partner meetings, into all these meetings. And it can really throw you off your game for a few days. You're like, oh, this one person didn't like my idea. Who am I? And it's just something you have to get through. And I would always try to justify each direction with logic and with market drawings. And one book that really helped me was Blue Ocean Strategy. It's my favorite business book to date. And it talks about how companies broke through the noise in existing industries. It talks about Southwest Airlines, Yellowtail Wine, and some really interesting companies that no one thought would work. And it gives you a framework with which to think about your company. And I would draw that framework and keep using it as my North Star. In a previous talk, and let me read this so I get it right, you said something pretty insightful, which is product market fit is not just an aha moment. It's a summation of lots of broad experiments and micro learnings over many years. Can you briefly expand on that? Like a common mistake is for people when they look at product market fit is to just look at one metric and then if it moves in one direction, then that's good. So what did you look at the beginning and how did you visualize this summation of stuff? Yeah. Ultimately, I think that product market fit is the center of the Venn diagram of ability to grow on one side and retention on the other side. And so if you look at our history, in the marketplace model, we weren't able to grow because of the chefs. We were supply constrained. In the personalized dinner model, we actually weren't able to grow really fast because of the customers. Even though it was personalized, the food wasn't better than the best takeout that you could order. So if you want to change the world or change your industry, you have to do something that is like materially better, like iPhone level better than the market. So people weren't racing to our door. So we didn't have that ability to grow. Our dinner kit model has the ability to grow and scale internally and externally from customer demand, and it also has high retention. So moving on to maybe more about grit and determination. So in the beginning, at Stanford, you were a bioengineering major. Yes. So technical but not a coder. How did you manage actually doing all of this without being technical? Yes. So technical but not a coder. How did you manage actually doing all of this without being technical? Yes. Hmm. Well, initially, and everyone is going to use their skill sets. And I think the one common theme is that in the first few months, you need to prove your concept. You need to have an MVP. You can do that with code. You can do that with sales, whatever. So I did not know how to code. I learned PHP. But in both my businesses, in the recruiting business and the chef business or the food business I have now, I made initial sales without a website. And I proved our concept in the first three months before any other kind of funding. So with the recruiting business, I did know like Photoshop and design and I taught myself all of that and loved it. So I enjoyed that. And I designed these like sales packages that would like, and I made up stuff. I was like gold, platinum, whatever, $20,000. And I would like see if people would give it to me, which is very bold as a college student. And I like had a mock-up of a website that wasn't built yet. And I took a semester off and tried, and only did sales because that was my proof of concept. And my parents said that only if I like got a sale could I not go work on Wall Street, which was horrible. So side note, I didn't get a sale that semester. And I met like maybe 80 or so people through introductions. And I went to go work at Morgan Stanley in 2008 in that horrible summer. And I hated my life. It was like equities trading. And three weeks in, I got a check in the mail for $10,000 because it was like equities trading and three weeks in I got a check in the mail for ten thousand dollars because it was a founder founding customer price from this like law firm and it was like the coolest day of my life it was revenue it was validation and it took me like you know seven to ten days to figure out how to quit the internship. Um, people were all like, you'll get blacklisted, you'll never get a job. Um, and, uh, I told the head of the program and he said, you will always have a job here, but you will never come back. And I thought that, I thought that was weird at the time. And now I fully understand it. And it's because like, once an entrepreneur, always an entrepreneur in your heart in a way. So anyways, I think the quitting is hard. It's a long story short, but it's hard to avoid. So around 2011, 2014, you had a hard time raising money, correct? So how did you, I mean, it's three years. How did you fund all of this? And then also at the same time, what did you spend your days doing? It must have been really, when you can't get money, it's really distracting. Like that's a huge distraction. So how did you focus on your business and keep going? Yes. So first of all, over those three and a half years of finding product market fit, our monthly burn was $40,000 on average. That's pretty low. That's not a fancy office. That's not 10 people. on average. That's pretty low. That's not a fancy office. It's not 10 people. We kept it to about four people and everyone had to be like co-founder style generalist because we were still iterating. So if you make your burn 40K, you know, you can make your 1.5 million last a while. But we raised two bridge rounds during that time. And there were some investors who refused to invest, some of them who like saw, would listen to the next iteration and invest in me. Both of those bridges were like 200 some K. And one critical thing, there was a time in 2013 when no one would invest in me and I was running out of all of my money and we had like one payroll in the bank. I think our bank was like $8,000 or something. And that's when I did YC. So I didn't do YC at the beginning of Gobble. I did YC three and a half years into the struggle when I didn't know I was about to figure it out. Everybody had lost faith and I'm the only one who had faith. And the only money I could get was from Jessica and PG. And so I did YC and they said they would help me raise a series A, like they would fund me for three more months. And six months after that, we figured out our 15 minute one pan dinner kit. and six months after that, we figured out our 15-minute one-pan dinner kit. So you mentioned you had employees during this hard time. How did you keep them motivated to keep going? That's a tough one. I think that there's a lot of turnover in the early days, and even like the later days after venture financing and you're learning how to hire execs. But the employees that ended up lasting the longest were by referral. And so there was some like shared values and shared trust there. And I also really clued them into the hard times. Sometimes you think you're protecting people by not telling them. But actually your closest employees, especially when you're four to six, if you bring them into the challenge and if they are challenge oriented, they will stay with you. But if you hide it, then they're not really feeling that excitement and that challenge. At one point you said that you got an acquisition off or one of your investors wanted you to just get acquired by a clothing startup. A clothing startup, yes. I mean, you're having a hard time and here's like potentially money in your bank account. What was your thought process in just turning that down? Yeah, I've thought a lot about this. Right now, even in our space, there's a lot of consolidation in the food space, in the meal kit space. If you like see the news, it's very popular drama in the news. It's, I mean, there's all these companies like Facebook or Snapchat or this or that, that have turned down different offers over time. And sometimes it's right. Sometimes it's wrong, judged by society. I just see so much potential in Gobble. And once we, early on, it was just that early on, I turned that clothing startup thing down in that product market fit time because this is what I want to work on. And I had, I have nothing to lose. I didn't have kids or whatever. And I just didn't imagine a better life than working on, working on a hard problem. And I just didn't imagine a better life than working on a hard problem. And now we've started doubling or tripling year on year. And so if someone were to acquire us now and we can't weather the storm of a bad meal kit market, I think we're leaving billions on the table. Speaking of competition, there has been billions of dollars in venture funding going into competitors or so-called competitors like Blue Apron, Play-Doh, so on and so forth. I mean, you were the original meal kit company. What do you think about all that money is going over there, but you're like, I'm here surviving and I'm growing fast. You know, what's really going in your mind? Yeah. Well, you know, we can look at the silver lining of it, which is that necessity breeds invention. And so by not having that much money, we didn't get comfortable and we had to innovate and we had to have good numbers. So I'm not saying that we should all starve our companies, but because we were like somewhat cost starved, we didn't. but because we were like somewhat cost starved, we didn't, I wasn't distracted by lots of fancy things and I just focused on making all the dollars count and doing something meaningful. So you talk a lot about mission, but beyond that, what actually really, like how did you keep going over the seven to eight years? Like is it genetic? Like what do you think it really is beyond just the mission? Wow. Hmm. Man, maybe it is some kind of like nature nurture thing. If it's mission is a big part of it. But with regards to the grit and determination thing, from an like early age, I think I just, my parents wanted me to go to this school, this all-girls school. And I hated my current school. I was bullied a lot. And there was bad phrases and racist things on my locker and bad stuff. And I applied to this girls' school in kindergarten, and I didn't get in. And then in first grade, and I didn't get in. And in second grade, and I didn't get in. And you had to grade and I didn't get in. And in second grade and I didn't get in. And you had to take this ERB test. And then like in those early grades, they're asking you like, what's a triangle or something, right? And I didn't get in. So I was like, what's going on? And my parents weren't donating and there's all these other factors, but I didn't get in. And I remember one time, my parents were like, the test is coming up. This is for your future. You need to do this. And I was just so mad. I like, I just remember being so defeated and so distraught. And like, I was letting them down. And I didn't want to take the test. I was like, who needs the school? Like, forget it. It's stupid. the school like forget it it's stupid and I took the test and I still didn't get in and finally in seventh grade I got into that school and it changed my life I used every resource they had I started new organizations I got funding from the principal of the school to like start a model UN society and like I saw it in a different way and And I just, I seized the entire opportunity when I was there because I knew how special it was. And I worked so hard to get there. And so somehow early on, like that was one experience, but there were experiences like that, that I just learned that life is about hard work and it's about lead bullets. And I'm always enamored by these real overnight successes successes I think the most overnight successes are like ten years in the making there are some flukes that are like one year two year three years that the media celebrates in a disproportionate amount and I'm always very enamored by them but the only way that I know is like this lead bullets, grit, do not give up strategy. You are a very ambitious third grader. Thank you. Kindergartner too. Thank you. I wish we had known you back then. We would just predict all of this and funded you all the way back in kindergarten. That would have been great. So you talk about obviously never quitting, but do you think there are reasons to quit? I've I guess I like quit kind of on my first startup and on one of the iterations of Gobble and the only reasons I have ever quit is because I think the what I was doing didn't have enough impact in the in in the broader world or fulfillment for me and meaning and purpose for me? I thought about this question and those are the only reasons I have quit in the past. I think though, that said, I think if the environment evolves and you can't keep up with it and things are just way surpassing you, then that would be a really hard look in the mirror. And I would may need to quit in that instance. So not getting comfortable and constantly iterating and being not dogmatic is important. A good example of that is Netflix. Netflix evolved to stay alive. There are a lot of big titans of industry that fell along the way because they couldn't evolve. So two more questions and then we'll take questions from the audience. One is, when you look back, are there decisions that you made in the early days that you're thankful that you made that were really critical to your success? And if so, what were they? Well, I'll talk about two. So one of them is that one of them is something a lot changed when we hired our executive chef, Thomas Ricci. And it wasn't just because we hired a chef to make consistent food and good food and like safe food in a kitchen. What we gained, though, was the ability to innovate in food. And what I have learned is, what I would suggest to an entrepreneur is that real entrepreneurship comes from diverse perspectives, and from innovating at the edge of different industries. It's really hard just to get 10 homogenous engineers in a room and like, make something incredible. You have to have other experts in like consumer or food or something, whatever else is in your industry to really find those little insights. So once, so our success came from innovating in technology and personalization, but a lot from innovating in food and doing that prep work and sending these food packages in a way that no other company sends them. That's not trivial. So making room for creativity in different areas of your business is important. And we didn't have that creativity when the suppliers were just contractor chefs. The second thing was, I have to thank Adora. She is way too humble. When I had no money, and I did YC, and I like swallowed my pride, we were still doing that personalized dinner service. And somehow, like I got matched up with Adora. And we didn't even figure it out by demo day. Like, we raised 200K on demo day. It was nothing. It wasn't the right timing. We hadn't figured it out. And we had just hired our chef, like, maybe six weeks or four weeks before demo day. So I started working with him and innovating with him and focusing on our future and meeting with Adora at her office. And anyways, I came to her, and I told her about this meal kit idea, this 15-minute prep kit back in 2014. And she was like, just so scary to me and really badass and really aggressive. And she was like, Ushma. And she was like, if this is it, you need to fucking do it. And she was like, you need to do it now. And I was like, okay. And she was like, how fast can you do it? And you kind of want to impress people. So I'm like, I don't know, like two weeks. She was like, great. And she was like, and so, I mean, she basically was like, she was like, she was like, it was, we okay, great. And she probably, like, I don't even know if she remembers all of that, but that's what I thought of every single day for 30 days. And I shut down that personalized dinner service. And we were doing maybe like one and a half to 2 million in ARR, but it wasn't going anywhere. And the food wasn't different enough. And when we had tested and R&D'd these like prep kits where people cook it themselves and feel like a superhero. That was magical in our testing and our customer visits. So within 30 days, we just ripped the bandaid off, shut down that business. It was the highest revenue making iteration that we had ever built. With every iteration, we made more revenue ultimately, even though we shut it down. And then on August 3rd, we launched this thing. And I emailed Adora this long email of, here are the screenshots, here's this. And I was using her to hold myself accountable. And I was like, it's launched. And that was the best decision of our lives. And so just speed to execute. And the other lesson is finding people who are in your corner. You need people who are in your corner. And it's okay to not talk to the ones who aren't. But finding people who are in your corner who you can use as an inspiration to motivate you is really critical for speed. Cool. Yeah. One of the things I tell people frequently is just do it already. Do it. Exactly. Stop the idea. Stop just stop middling. Just do it. Okay. So last question for me is 50 to 100 years from now, Gobble is going to be even bigger than it is today, but what do you think it's going to be? Wow. Well, I, you know, in the 50 to 100 year vision, I actually want Gobble to be, let's call it the Disney of the home. And my thing with Gobble is about creating magical experiences at home that are easy and fit into this busy life for any kind of person, like single parents, hourly working, affluent people. I think that with all this technology and all this fast food, we've over-instrumented a lot of industries and I was missing that connection. And I think at the end of the day, when our lives are over, all we care about are the moments with our loved ones. And so if I can facilitate some of that, whether it's with learning, whether it's with dinner or food, and I'll keep evolving with the environment, I think that's a worthy cause. That's interesting. So it's going to be more than just food. Yeah, we're working on a few other things around like education and learning and things like that. Awesome. Cool. All right. So who has questions? This question is for you guys. We're talking about we're in determination, right? But besides that, we've actually earned other problems. Like people who are living here, have customers here, but on, let's say, working visa, HVB, stuff like that, right? They eventually run into that legal hurdle. Like you see them making progress, and they have clearly made progress, but now they're like, I don't know what do I do with Britain because I'm going to do that problem, right? So what kind of suggestions do you have for those people that are in that situation, and now they're like, shit, I just can't do anything about it, and I don't know what to do now? Yeah, so I think the question is around that there are environmental constraints and legal constraints with regards to immigration and H-1B and things like that that prevent people from being where they want to be with their customer, right? They've already been there, and now what do they do now? They have to do it full-time. They reach the stage. If you have to do it full-time, but you have to live in another country? Is that what you're asking? You're already here. You have your customers here. There's no point going back to to where you came from. So you are here. You made progress on the site. The product is out. You have your first customer. And now you've reached a point where you can't pull this thing off on the weekends or on the evenings. So you have it this whole time. You can't. So what do you do there? Great determination. What's the way out? Well, I know one of my good friends had a similar problem. And friends had a similar problem. And these are very tactical things. Like they established some like shell company and then one of the investors was put on as a board member. And then that board member sponsored the sponsorship, but you're really the CEO of the company. And so there are like, I think, first of all, getting that like H-1B visa is insane, right? And we had someone, we have people who can't get that visa. So Gobble actually has an engineering team in India and in South Africa. And we're just waiting for the visas. And some people have been waiting for like 14 months and they're still working for us remotely. So in those situations, that's nuts. And now there's very few loopholes. But if you already are here, sometimes there's some things you can do. I think like YC has helped with some of that stuff. If you're making revenue and you have an actual company going, there's ways to go about it. I would just talk with a lawyer. Great. Hi, thank you so much for coming and sharing with us. Tell us a little bit about the pricing journey of Gobble. I have a very successful offline business that I'm bringing online, and I'm scared and I'm holding up because of pricing. So please inspire me and everyone else. Tell us about your pricing strategy for Gobble. Yeah. Interesting. So we've done a lot. Oh yeah, sorry. Question is, tell us about the pricing strategy for Gobble and how our pricing strategy evolved. Pricing is a big part of product market fit. So, you know, it has to be priced appropriately for your market. Initially, we had different offerings at different prices on our marketplace. If you're in a scrappy company, the best tool for pricing experimentation is email. Because it's hard to put like different prices all over your website for different users. So what I would do is email people. And I have a zillion things in beta all the time. So I'd email our existing customers. And I'd say, hey, here's a beta on premium dinners. Or here's a beta on value meals. Or here's a beta on our wine program. And I would first do all the research of the market and then send people, like different clusters of people, three different prices. And in the early days, I did it with like 20 people each. And then now I do it with like thousands of people each. So in the early days, it was a plain text email. And I would say, like, would you, and then sometimes to each individual person, I would send three plans. So I'd say, do you want plan A, B, or C? And so you can send different groups different sets of three plans, or you can send different groups different pricing for one product. But you just basically multiply the profit times how many people buy it, and whichever one wins in most profit is your best price. Thank you. So thank you for coming to talk to us today. YC is really pro having a co-founder, and you've done it on your own for a while, so can you talk about that? The question is that YC is very pro having a co-founder, and that I did it on my own for a while. Can I talk about that? When I started Gobble, I looked for a co-founder and that I did it on my own for a while. Can I talk about that? When I started Gobble, I looked for a co-founder and I spent, I kind of just started it. Like I found chefs on Craigslist and I was delivering food in my car, but I was dating co-founders that are now other YC founders at the time. And no one at that time in that like three, four month period was willing to quit their job and join me or was randomly as passionate about my idea as I was. So it was a unique, this was all very organic. I didn't really think, you know, I must have a co-founder or I must be a solo co-founder. I tried to find one and my priority was like leaping on this idea. And so I didn't find one and I just went with it. Long term, I think it is hard, very hard as a single founder. Right now, our exec team operates kind of like as a hive mind and I share everything with them. So after many, many years, now we have like a five person super team that's all very invested and kind of like a co-founding team, but at scale. In the early days, what I say for single founders is you kind of have, like if you're swimming in the ocean, it's kind of like a net buoy system. So you have to find like three or six people that are like those orange buoys and you're swimming by yourself and you're super, super tired. And when you want to rest, you like swim over to one of the buoys and you hug it and you like talk to them and they help you. But then since you don't have a co-founder, no one can be your rock, right? So next time you're like, you know, need to rest, you swim over to another buoy and you hug that, you know, and you kind of like, you basically crowdsource your co-founder from other founders and friends, and you have to really find. And in fact, some of my closest friends were other single founders. And so I had a group of like two or three single founders, and we all like would constantly meet up for coffee or drinks after work and trade stories and help each other. Yes, right here. How has your life changed as a CEO now versus when you started? What were the lows? What were the highs? Wow. Please, I apologize. So the question is, how has your role as CEO changed from beginning to what it is now? It must have been dramatic. Yes. Okay. In the beginning, one of the highs is just that you're constantly innovating. Like that 24-7 maker time is very precious to me. By contrast, now my day is full of meetings. It's like meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, and then dinners. And so yesterday I get home at 11 p.m. Today we're starting at 8 a.m. And it's really full. And I have to fight for strategic time and maker time. And we still need that to like keep evolving, right? So I cherish that part of the early days. Obviously the lows are when like nobody cares about you. You barely have any customers. Like I'm just sleeping at our office or laying on our couch. And I remembered in some of the lows, I just would put white paper all over and I'd like lay on the floor and it'd just be like a blank slate and be like, okay, what's next? Come up with it. And so those are the lows. The highs now are, it's really gratifying when people start to know you and you every time I meet a customer like in the wild it's it makes my day and when I get too far from the customer I actually notice myself getting unhappy again I think if you care about the customer and that experience long term all the money will come okay let's take two more questions one in the back yeah hi my name is uh I'm the co-founder of Inveria. And one of my questions is that in early stages you have to work with a lot of people. And how do you work with those people? So you have your sales where you get the money from, but you also have people that work with you and help your company grow. So my question is, how do you get that happening without pestering them? You know, like, hey, we're going to pay for it. But how do you do that in a good manner and in a way, like, making them believe in your vision? Yeah, that's a great question. The question is, in the early days, you have your, I think the question is this, that you have your team that you're working with and your customers, but there are other people that aren't on your team that help you. And they're like mentors, advisors, friends. How do you get those people to work with you without feeling like a pest or that you're pestering them? I had a lot of this. So this is a really good question. Two things. One, I targeted the right advisors to help me, and I would find out where they were speaking. And I would wait till everybody was done talking to them and be the last one to talk to the speaker because they would remember me. And then I would walk them to their car because they were in a rush. So again, this is about like psychology and like, what does a speaker need to do? They've talked to 100 people, you know, they need to go. If you carry their bags to their car, you're helping them in a small little way. And you're showing kind of some respect there. That's how I found like Aaron Patzer from mint.com back in the day, who was one of my early advisors, and some other people. That was a hack to finding the right mentors, find out where they are and like, wait and then follow up. The other thing is I only ask people questions that was in their wheelhouse. So I learned a lot about like, what should I ask this person? Because when you spend time with someone who's like a mentor and let's say you ask me about like enterprise sales, I don't know anything about, I do a little bit, but I don't know a lot about enterprise sales, you know? And so it's kind of, it makes them feel bad and it's also a waste of your time. And what I would do with people is I would bring, I structured like a white piece of paper in three kind of thirds, I guess. And the top would be my progress, like what have I done since I last saw you? The next third would be, progress, like what have I done since I last saw you? The next third would be what am I working on now? And the last third would be what are my challenges? And I was very organized about all the time that I asked from people. And so they always saw progress and then they would see their advice like come back and I would save all my notes. So in the early days I met Reid Hoffman and there was this cafe called University Cafe. And I went to cafes that only had paper tablecloths and we would write all over the tablecloth. And then I would like take, it had coffee stains on it and stuff, and I would like take it home. And I still have this box of like those tablecloths that are like big butcher papers from like five, six years ago. So it's just like, I think about all those little things and about making time useful, taking notes, being prepared, and meeting with the right people. I think also, and you mentioned this, but I just want to pull it out is being very thoughtful of the questions you ask and being very specific instead of asking broad questions that could take hours to answer. You're more likely to get an answer as a result. Okay, last question. Make it good. Guy in the back. Hi, my name is Mark Raffel. In fact, I was so eager to hear you today, I left my exhibition of TechCrunch to come here. Oh my gosh. Thank you so much. My question is about investors. Actually, you said that you struggled a lot to get investment out of Airbnb. Wow. Great question. The question is, we talked about hacks with getting customers. And what are the hacks around getting investors? Because I struggled with getting investors in the early days. I think as you observe all your friends, everybody has lucky or easier fundraising rounds. And everyone has hard fundraising rounds. So even if someone has it easy right now and you have it hard, it's okay. Like it might be hard for them later. And the stories are very up and down. How do you get investors? Wow. It's still tough. For example, even last year for our series B, I had a very difficult time raising money. Like it all looks fantastic and there's lots of news and videos, but it like took every ounce of my being. It was the hardest fundraising. Like it all looks fantastic and there's lots of news and videos, but it like took every ounce of my being. It was the hardest fundraising. And it's because Amazon acquired Whole Foods and everyone is afraid of Amazon. So they just thought Amazon's going to do Gobble. And also because Blue Apron went public and they don't have a lot of defensibility and there's lots of companies that are repackaging groceries. So their stock price went down. And that meant that Gobble wasn't going to work. So last year was really, really hard. What advice do I have? I think that, oh, here's one good piece of advice. A lot of it is grit. And a lot of it is testing. And then watching what resonates with people and perfecting your pitch. And it's weird to practice in front of friends, but you should really, really do it and have everyone help you with your deck and your pitch. That's important. But the one advice I have, and this may not be true for everyone, but some founders that are like shyer or not as confident, when they get to their last slide, they say, even if, and they say like, even if, you know, the world ends, I will still get you your money back. And investors do not care about getting their money back. That is not sexy to them. You shouldn't say that. Founders are kind of like hedging against themselves and saying, don't worry, I'll still protect your money. But you need to up-level that when you go talk to investors and not say even if. You need to say, you need to say that we have the potential to be the next big X. Like we have the potential to be a $10 billion business in three years. And like pump yourself up, like stretch, power pose. But you have to end on that really big high note, very strong. And that's my piece of advice. All right. Thank you so much, Ishma. Thank you.