 As we're concluding our course in startup investing, we're going to focus on probably the most important aspect of being a great angel investor, and that's how to be good. And interestingly, it's how to be good. Interestingly, it's not a neutral question. It's the most important question that you're going to have to ask yourself as you have decisions to make as you do investments and things happen. Things always happen, sometimes not great things. And you have to decide how you're going to act. things always happen, sometimes not great things. And you have to decide how you're going to act. My good friend and partner, Aaron Harris, is going to walk us through what it means to be a good investor. He knows a lot about this, he has started companies, he has been an investor himself many times, and he's been a YC partner for five years now. Is that right, five years now. Is that right? Five years? So he has seen thousands of companies like the rest of us. Aaron, you should note as you listen to him, has said that experts are generally right until they're wrong. Aaron? Thanks, Jeff. Thankfully, I don't consider myself an expert in much. I don't know if that means I'm right more or wrong more. But all right, so let's get this started. So when Jeff and I talked about this idea of doing a session on how to be a good investor, I thought about it for a while and realized there's actually a definitional challenge here in questioning what the word good actually means in the context of being an investor. And one of these is really obvious. You think of good investors, you think of people who make lots and lots of money, right? You generate returns, that's the goal of being an investor. That's what we expect when we hear someone is a good investor. But in startups particularly, there's another definition that I'd argue is actually more important than just generating returns. And that's in your reputation. Now, it seems a little strange that reputation is something we think about. Because when we think about investing, we tend to think about money, because you give money to generate returns. That's how markets work, right? That's taking risk. But reputation actually drives your returns when it comes to investing in startups. And here's why. In public markets, it doesn't matter who you are. You can buy the stock. This is why a lot of hedge fund bosses are assholes. Doesn't matter. They make lots and lots of money no matter what they do. And so you hear ridiculous stories about the things that they do and the way that they mistreat people. I know a little bit about this because I worked on Wall Street for four years. And I can tell you that inside of a standard investment bank where many of my friends worked and where I worked, we never really thought of the people we worked for as people we liked or wanted to hang out with. They were simply good at doing deals and making money. And the same is true across the hedge fund world, but it's not true when it comes to startups. And that's because this isn't an open market. And the supply and demand of investors to good startups aren't matched in an open exchange. There is nowhere where you can go and buy access at your discretion in any startup that comes out of YC. Now, obviously, this is changing a little bit when it comes to ICOs. But even in ICOs, if you want to get in on the pre-sale or the pre-pre-sale or the pre-pre-pre-pre-pre-sale, you're going to have to know someone. And I've watched the way these networks have developed even in that space. And what you see happening is people with good reputations get the best prices and get in on the best and most oversubscribed deals. This is particularly true for hot companies, for the good startups, the great startups. This is a little tricky because as people have talked about this week, you don't really know who the good ones are ahead of time. And often, a rush of investors towards a startup is a contraindicator of that startup's long-term success. However, you have to go with what you can see at any given point in time. And if there is a deal that you want to get into, you need to find ways to advantage yourself to get into that deal. And that's why you need your advantage when it comes to investing in companies. And I think that that advantage is primarily a function of how good your reputation is. And here's how this kind of works. Being good is directly correlated to your deal flow. So let's say you get your first investment. What's your job with that investment as an angel? Well, because again, these aren't massive public companies that are immune to your help, your goal as an angel investor is to improve the likelihood of that startup's success. Can you help that company be really, really, really good? Oh, I forgot to advance that. Sorry. If you can do this, if you can help companies do better, the founders will talk about you. There just aren't that many founders in the world who are completely un-networked to their founders. So if there is a rumor out there that you're really helpful, then you'll get more deals. And if you get more deals, then you'll have more opportunities to help companies succeed. And if you help more companies succeed, then you'll see more deals. It's a recursive loop. As you do this more, you get better at it and more companies talk about you. Of course, the opposite is true. If you screw this pattern up, if you're seen as someone who hurts the companies, then your deal flow will dry up. I know this very, very well because I had investors who were not very good to me, who did things that I would consider to be bad. They don't get many invitations to demo day. I think Elad said yesterday that there was an investor who tried to screw him on his acquisition or his sale of his company. And Jeff, was his quote, I'll never fucking work with him again? Yeah. Founders have long memories. And startups are a small world. So remember this. This thing reinforces on itself in either direction and it can happen very, very quickly. So if you want to do this thing, if you want to be good, if you want to increase the likelihood of success of companies and get more deals, how do you do it? In my mind, there are four places at which you have the opportunity to demonstrate that you are good to a founder through an investment. And those four stages are before you make the investment, which is in sourcing your deals, during when you're meeting the founders for the first time and negotiating the terms of your investment as you transition from being a pursuer to an actual investor or from an investor into a shareholder, which is closing the deal, and then after the deal is closed, which is your ongoing relationship with the company. At each of these places, you have the opportunity to become helpful and to become good. So let's go through these one by one. How do you source deals well? What do you do? It's important to find out good places to locate investments. I highly recommend Demo Day. We'll bring out about 150 companies all in one day. You can do all of your sourcing for six months at one Demo Day. But you know that you want to try to get an edge in that relationship. And so what a lot of people do is they'll start emailing founders. They'll find a list. They'll find a founder who knows a founder who knows a founder who knows a founder whose brother heard that a founder was NYC, and they'll email that person. And maybe that founder won't respond because they're busy. And then the investor has a choice. And it's a pretty stark choice. They can either A, respect the founder's decision that they don't want to talk right now, and politely email back and say, hey, I know you're busy. Is it okay if I keep following up and find a time when you're not so busy to meet? That's great. Or they can start pestering the founder. They can start stalking the founder and showing up at coffee shops. They can drive around the circle here on Pioneer Way, hoping that a founder comes out of the building such that they can talk to them. around the circle here on Pioneer Way, hoping that a founder comes out of the building such that they can talk to them. These things have happened. We've had investors literally hanging around outside the door in the hopes that they'll find some founder that they want to meet. Don't do that. Not only is it creepy, it's unlikely to endear you to the founder in a way that will get you the deal that you want. And this is weird because you think, oh, I need to be persistent. I need to do everything. If I do everything, I'll win. I'll get the deal. That's not how it works. When the companies need capital, they tend to go looking for it. If you do end up sourcing a deal and you make that first contact and you go and have a conversation with someone, there are some pretty easy etiquette rules when you meet with a founder. The first is you need to respect their time. Do not ask for a three-hour meeting for a new company. If the founder says, yes, I can meet, keep it to half an hour. If the relationship is good, if things are going well, then you can make it more than that. If you go out for coffee or a meal, you pay. My friend, Baba Maraka, who was one of my angel investors and has also been a professional investor for quite a while, gave me a great rule of thumb. If an investor meets with the founder, the investor pays. If two investors go out, whoever has the higher AUM pays. I think it's a really great rule of thumb and I use it all the time. And you should do this because it doesn't matter whether or not the founder is wealthy or poor. It doesn't matter whether or not the founder owns the coffee shop you're in. It doesn't matter if the founder bought really nice avocado toast and all you got was a cup of tea. You are trying to be good to this founder and show that you want to help them. And if you're discussing the idea of giving that founder $5,000, $10,000, $15,000, $100,000, what the hell is the price of coffee? A cup of coffee, right? Go the extra distance to show that you want to help that founder. They will remember it, and they'll tell stories about you if you don't. Now, meeting and negotiating. Again, respect the founder's time, right? So in that meeting, when you're talking to them, as that conversation develops, you're going to ask questions. And they're going to have the answers to some of the questions, and they're not going to have the answers to other questions. That's okay. In all likelihood, it's a brand new company that doesn't know all the answers. And if you expect them to know everything, you will be sorely disappointed. And if a founder says no to a question or says, I don't know, it's okay to ask once or twice in slightly different ways to see if you can get the information, but don't ask 15 times. This is a way to certainly annoy the founder and probably push on something that they might wish they knew, but might be completely irrelevant. When you're speaking to that founder, focus on the founder. This is really hard to do in something like a cocktail hour after demo day, where there's all these other founders going around. Any of them might be starting a multi-billion dollar company. And so what you do is you're talking to someone, you're talking, you're talking, who's that over there? I wonder, can I? And you sort of start walking away as the person's talking to you. This is just basic human conversation stuff, which people often get wrong. Don't do that. Focus on the person you're talking to. Give them your time because they might be an incredible founder and you might want to get into the deal. And they will remember if you were a jerk to them. Now, when you're discussing what it is you want to invest, you need to understand the terms. Understand what you're asking for, what it means, and what's okay. One of the challenges here is that a lot of this stuff is pretty opaque, which is why we're doing investor school. We're talking about what each of the terms in a safe means, what a cap is, what a liquidation preference is. By the way, don't ask for those in angel investments. I saw an investor just last week agree to terms with a founder, a standard safe. They were going through the motions, okay, sending back and forth, oh, we send you a safe, okay, great, great, great. And then the investor sent back an email, hey, just one last thing, and listed Okay, great, great, great. And then the investor sent back an email. Hey, just one last thing. And listed 10 demands, including a board seat, 2X participating preferred, drag along rights, right to block a sale. I can't remember the other ones. And the founder came to me and said, what do we do? We had an agreement for all this money. What should we do? I said, walk away. There are We had an agreement for all this money. What should we do? I said, walk away. There are other investors out there, and this is a bad investor. And enter and tell your friends, right? It's a pretty open secret that YC has an investor database. This information goes into the investor database. And those investors don't get a lot of deal flow afterwards. When you're in this negotiation, it is natural for one side to have more leverage than the other. That's fine. That's how negotiations work. Understand where the balance of leverage is. Use it wisely. And don't push it too far. This is something that will come up again and again in your relationships with founders. There are always unexplored pockets of alpha, probably, that you could get if you pushed beyond what seems appropriate. It seems like the right decision in the micro. It's the wrong long-term decision because you're trying to do more than one deal over time. And it is unlikely that any small thing you do, that a tiny, tiny bit more ownership that you get in one deal is going to be the difference between greatness and badness over the arc of your career as an angel investor. Always negotiate in good faith. If you say you're going to do something, do it. And if you are negotiating with someone, do it with the intention that you're actually negotiating for a reason. One of the worst things that investors do, and we tell all of our founders about this, is to avoid investors who are negotiating to the point where they can find out if other people are investing. And this is this weird thing. They'll say, oh, yeah, yeah, no, I want to invest in this term and this term. Oh, who else is investing? No, it's cool. No, just tell me, like, who else? Can you tell me who else invested? And they will only make a decision if they see a lot of other investors have come in. This is a terrible idea for two reasons. One, groupthink usually leads to bad decisions. And two, as I've seen again and again over the last few years, some of the best companies that have come out of YC's demo day have been the ones that didn't attract all of the investor interest. And it's the investors who think differently and go against the curve and find the things that they genuinely find interesting regardless of what other people do. They find not only companies that are going to do incredibly well, they get in at better prices and they get more ownership. And we remember that. We remember the smart founders. I look back and I say, oh wow, those guys are a lot smarter than I thought. And I start to send them things. I say, hey, you should look at this one. It's a lot like this other deal that you did. Other people are not smart enough to look at this, but you are. That's great. That's the position you want to be. And finally, when you do finish a negotiation and you do agree to something, I don't care if it's a handshake. I don't care if it's verbal. I don't care if it's in an email or a contract. Your word is your bond. This is something we drill into our founders. If you agree to something, that agreement is final. I understand that there can be circumstances in which something wasn't revealed, which there's material new information that changes the agreement. That's okay, but do not break a handshake. Everyone will know. It will not stay secret. And people will understand that you are not someone to be trusted and you're trying to start a trusted relationship let's say you finish negotiation you're all done everyone's agreed everyone's happy what happens next as soon as you agree two terms, say to the founder, great, can you send me docs? If the founder is slow in sending you docs, follow up and say, hey, can you send me those docs? This is when it's okay to be pushy. You are a shareholder now, or you should be. Get the docs signed. And as soon as you sign them, send the wire. Don't even get up from your computer. Use HelloSign or Clerky or whatever you're using. Sign and immediately open your Goldman Sachs wealth management account or call your guy at Smith Barney. Is that still a thing? No? Okay. And get them to wire the money to the account as soon as possible. And as soon as you do, call all your friends who also are trying to figure out where to put money and get them in on the deal. Bring a coalition. Bring a syndicate with you, bring really helpful investors as the founder needs to say, hey, Aaron, thanks for letting me put $25,000 in. I know you guys are trying to raise a half million more. I have five people who I worked with or who I know who are awesome for your business for this reason, this reason, and this reason. They typically invest $25,000 or $50,000 a piece. Can I get them in? And if the founder says yes, immediately send the emails, make the phone calls, and bring those people in. Everyone remembers that. And this is the reverse of saying, hey, let me invest and I'll figure out money later. I promise I'll find you some other people, but I'm not going to invest until they come in. You invest first. You lead and then bring the other people in. That's a great way to set off your relationship on a good foot. And then get the hell out of the way. There's this thing that investors want to do during a fundraising process where they've invested. They now feel as if they are the CEO. This is particularly difficult for people who have been CEOs or have run groups. And they say, oh, great, I've invested. Hey, I did a teardown of your product. It's broken here and here and here. Also, the way that you wrote this thing on your website is bad. I think the period's in the wrong place. And they just start sending emails. And these emails are incredibly frustrating because the founder is trying to close the round and get back to work. And now you're distracting them with all these things. My partner Dalton refers to this kind of investor as a human DNS attack, where they just like overload you with all these requests. And you can't do anything anymore because your email is just filled with all these requests and all these things and all these orders. So don't do that. Sit back and wait for the founder to reach out to you and get to the point where you can start helping. Because then, oh, actually, sorry, two quick stories because I think this is pretty awesome. The best transition from kind of wants to invest to shareholder that I have seen is an investor that comes to demo day who meets with founders, does a handshake on the floor, leaves within five minutes of demo day ending, and then literally sends wires from his jet as he flies home that night. And for a while, we thought this wasn't really happening. We didn't understand that this investor was legit. And then a couple of our companies said, ah, so this is going to sound weird. But we sent this guy a safe and he said he was flying out. But then we got the wire and we tried to respond. And his assistant said, sorry, he's already he's in flight. He can't respond. We thought, whoa, this is pretty cool. This guy's really moving fast. He's following all the advice about closing quickly. That's great. The opposite is an investor I know of who committed to investing in a company, worked really, really hard. Oh, I'm going to be so great. That was a big check. I think it was a half million dollar check or something like that. I'm going to be so good for you and for everything. Okay, cool, awesome. And then he signed the docs, and then the founder said, hey, where's the wire? Nothing. Founder said, hey, where's the wire? Nothing. Hey, where's the wire? A week later, the investor got back, said, oh, I'm so sorry about that wire. My fund hasn't closed yet. Yeah. So can you hold that open for me? And the founder said, no. That's ridiculous. I need the wire. You agreed. I'm going to kick you out. So the investor tried this, said, OK, hey, I'm sending you a check in the mail. Can you do me a favor? Can you put it in your drawer? Just hold it there for, I just need a couple weeks. And then you can cash it. Wow, this is terrible for so many reasons. One one never commit to invest money you don't have two this person convinced the founder that they had the money to invest the founder stopped talking to some of the other investors that were interested so didn't get the money from the investors that were interested is now waiting on money that doesn't exist and can't really necessarily go back to those original angels that were interested because they're in this weird legal limbo where they signed the thing and now they don't have the money. That's a blacklistable offense, right? If you start making promises that you literally can't cash, that's a really good way to destroy your reputation. And there's the final part. Being good to companies on an ongoing basis. Now, a bunch of the other speakers over the course of the week touched on this, about the kinds of advice that you can offer, how you offer that advice, the cadence with which you do it. And I kind of want to keep this high level in terms of thinking about your relationship with a company as a relationship and as an ongoing relationship that builds and deepens over time. And this isn't actually going to be true of every single one of your investments. That's a fact. If you are lucky enough to make more than one investment, chances are one of those or many of those you'll never hear from very much again. Hopefully they'll send you investor updates and there'll be things with which you can help. But some of these founders just won't need you or maybe won't believe that they need you. And it's not your place to force your way in. Founders will ask for help. Good founders will ask for help when they need it. The founders who disappear on you, it's not worth your time to chase them because honestly, they're probably not going to do very much. We've noticed that founders who send monthly updates every single month tend to outperform founders who disappear for six and 12 months at a time. And it's this thing about understanding transparency and understanding how to keep a relationship going, right? Because this is a disappear for six and 12 months at a time. And it's this thing about understanding transparency and understanding how to keep a relationship going, right? Because this is a two-way street. And the founders who understand that tend to create better outcomes. Those are the people I like to work with. There are things you will learn as an investor that will be secret. Investor updates qualify as this. And you need to help a founder realize the difference between private information and proprietary information, or confidential information and proprietary information. Confidential information is revenue numbers, headcount, burn, balance. Those things are not to be published freely, but honestly, don't make the difference between the life or death of the company. You have no right to share them without explicit permission, but it's okay for a founder to share it for you, and it's okay for you to ask for that information. It's not okay for you to ask to look at source code on your own computer at home, potentially with a competitor over your shoulder. That's not okay. And so you shouldn't ask for it. And if a founder tells you they don't want to give you that kind of information, respect it. Part of that is knowing where you are actually helpful. I have felt this a lot, where I want to help companies in areas I don't understand. And it's this overriding urge when someone asks you a question to answer it to the best of your ability. And it's very easy as the person with money and experience, maybe, to treat that as license to advise on any question that gets asked of you. Resist that urge. When you do not know the answer to a question, do not answer it. Say, hey, I would love to help you on this, but I can't. I really can't. I know some people who might be able to help. Would it be okay if I ask them the question? That's a way to help your founders. And when you do know the answers, help. Offer that help. Offer the advice. Offer to show up at the office and walk them through how to do something. Offer to get on the phone. If you're not willing to get on the phone with a company that you've invested in, you probably made a bad investment or you've done a bad job choosing. So think about that and look at the ratio of companies you've invested in who you'd be willing to take a phone call from versus the ones that you're not. It's a good indication of whether or not you're tracking. Above all things, and this is an important thing for me, and I think it's important in the ecosystem overall, is you need to be honest. A lot of founders will ask hard questions and your instinct will be to shade the truth. Or to say, hey, it's not going that bad, or don't worry, you shouldn't have hit metrics this month anyway because you had a cold. Or, no, there's a totally fine way to fire someone. Founders sometimes need to hear hard truths and sometimes you need to hear hard truths. And if you're not honest with them, they won't be honest with you. They won't tell you when they don't think you're doing a good job if they don't think you're doing the same for them. And as you are honest with people, honest and fair, people will respond to that and you'll get better information. This is something I always really appreciated from PG, where any conversation I have with him, he is completely honest with me about where I stand, what I'm doing right and what I'm doing wrong. And because I know that he is doing it in our shared interest, it never feels like an attack. And because I know that he is doing it in our shared interest, it never feels like an attack. And there's, again, this thing you want to do where you're so smart, you have money, I'm going to attack you for this thing you're doing wrong and I'm going to drive it home just to prove how wrong you are and how right I am. That doesn't help. People react super badly to that. Just be honest and direct and kind. And finally, respect the limits of your influence and your rights in any given situation. Don't go to the place where you start trying to make the decisions for the CEO when you're a small shareholder. Don't try to influence the board. Don't go calling the board behind the founders back because you think they did something wrong. It's probably not your place, except in really extreme circumstances where the founder is committing fraud and won't admit it. But proceed cautiously in any of those situations. There is one right I do want to mention that is often a point of contention between early-stage investors and later-stage investors and founders. I see this a lot because I run our Series A program where I take all of our companies that have raised seed capital and when they're ready for their Series A's we train them up and we try to help them raise the best possible Series A. And the point of contention ends up being around pro-rata rights. If you're not familiar with what they are, look them up. They're one of the most valuable rights that an early-stage investor can negotiate for and that an early-stage investor can get. And what they basically allow you to do is continue to invest in a company in future rounds such that you're not diluted, should you have the capital to do that. Now, this thing happens where in later rounds, founders will go out and raise money. And their later stage investor will say, well, you want to raise $10 million. We want all $10 million of that round. So screw your early investors. It's not great. And the founder gets put in a really rough position, especially if they didn't account for this ahead of time, where they don't know what to do. And it's very easy in this situation if a founder emails you and says, hey, I need you to cut back your pro rata rights because we have Sequoia on the other side or Excel or whoever, right? That's a lot of pressure. And usually it's actually coming from somewhere in the middle. A partner at Sequoia didn't say cut everyone back. It usually got lost in translation through a lawyer or something. And the founder interpreted it as a directive and they come to you. Understand that they're not trying to kill you. They're probably not consciously trying to hurt you. And be reasonable with them. But I think it's okay here to be firm and say, look, we negotiated for this. You agreed to this. I need my pro rata. Here's what it is. And if it's a situation where it's really too much, where they can't give you your pro rata, be understanding, right? And figure out a way forward that's good for both sides. And remember that every once in a while, you have to subordinate your financial best interest in a specific deal for the greater good of your long-term career as an investor. A couple things that good is not. Good does not mean smart in any way. It's not the smartest investors that make the most returns, and it's not the smartest investors that are helpful. Dumb money and smart money are kind of both money to founders. They make the machine go. And what I found is that investors who know which camp they fall into can both be good. So-called dumb money, you don't know much about startups, you don't know much about investing, but you try to be helpful, you give capital when it's needed, you're honest, you move quickly. That's a good investor in my book. And I would be happy to recommend that investor to any startup that asked. Smart money, investors who have built that kind of business know how it works also really good or can be really good. And both of those investors can be bad by violating some of the rules we've talked about. Good doesn't equal big checks. Some of my best investors as a founder were some of my smallest checks. They were the people willing to get on the phone. And some of my biggest investors like Sequoia were also some of my best investors. And it all depends on the relationship that you build and how you go about it. And good doesn't even mean famous. You have probably never heard of some of the best angels in YC companies. You've heard of some of them. Hi, Ron. He's great. But there are also a lot of really, really great investors you've never heard of, who founders know about, who we know about. So don't read the paper and say, oh, this angel was just involved in that deal. That must be a great deal. He must be awesome. She must be awesome. She must be the best. Remember that it's not about fame. It's about helping companies and getting into good deals. And if you do that, if you are in fact good, hopefully good actually yields returns. That's our hope. That's what we'd like you all to be able to do and we'd like to be able to help you do that. Thanks. As an investor, what can you expect in terms of governance from a seed stage company? And what should you expect in terms of investor updates? So on the governance side, most seed companies do not have external board members. It's usually one or two of the founding team are kind of a board, and they approve things like options grants, but there's no one outside. And that's just sort of the nature of how the system works. I think that's generally good because I think that boards at that early stage are more hindrance than help. And I think that starts to change when a company has raised somewhere between four, somewhere above $4 million of raise. That's when I actually advise companies to form a board whether or not an investor has A specific right to do so and what we'll do In some of these cases is we'll kind of form an informal board with them and I'll sort of sit down with them once a Quarter to make sure things are on track If there are things that you think are being done that are explicitly Bad from a governance perspective bring it up and discuss it when it comes to investor updates, I actually wrote an essay about this called Investor Updates that outlines how to write a good one. It should take about 15 minutes if the company knows what it's doing. It's a little different if it's a pre-product versus post-product, but the basics of it it should have revenue it should have growth it should have burn chef cash balance should have what they need what's going well and what they're struggling with 15 minutes a month maybe 20 or 30 and every month a seed stage company because if they're not sending it that often it probably means they're not making that much progress there's a a tendency where some companies will say, oh, well, I'm too busy. I'm going to do this every six months. What I tell them is the reason that's bad is their investors will forget about them. And it is not bad investor behavior to pride your founders into good founder behavior. It's not a good idea to exhibit bad investor behavior because your founder has good founder behavior. It's not a good idea to exhibit bad investor behavior because your founder has bad founder behavior, but you are well within your rights to request your rights. There was a question back here. So the question is about reputation and how the reputation system, such as it is, sometimes breaks down. The questioner knows of investors who have actually treated companies bad but seem to have a good public reputation. How does that happen and what happens? I think no reputations get, I don't know, elected to high office. Never happen. Never. I think that's true all through history. Honestly. I think that this space is fairly small. And it might take a little while, but that word usually gets around. But there's always going to be a few bad apples that I think will probably continue to squeeze into deals here and there. The thing that you don't know, and this is really tricky, you have no idea from the outside what kind of allocation that person actually got. So I've seen people put on their Twitter bios and in AngelList and on LinkedIn that they're investors in some wildly successful company. And I know that they bought a couple thousand dollars of secondary at a massive round. And they hold themselves up as being brilliant brilliant angel investors who caught it early. So, you know. So, I actually think I know what happens there. And it sort of sucks. But there is a power asymmetry. And it is difficult for a founder to want to take on an investor who's more powerful than them, even if they're being an asshole. And it sucks. One of the advantages of being a YC company, by the way, is that we stomp on people who do that. That we're lucky enough to be in a position where if you screw with one of our companies, they will tell us. And I don't care, even if you're Ron Conway, although he never does that. He never does, right? The most powerful angel there is, and he never does. So, you know, that sort of reputation does spread throughout. And I would also argue that secondarily that it'll never last because eventually people who are treating companies bad, like politicians who do bad things, it leaks out. That's because the information asymmetry that used to exist doesn't really exist anymore, and word will get out. . Did you get the question? Sorry, you're a little quiet there, but you're asking about losing pro rata rights? Okay, so what happens when your pro rata rights are taken away from you? So Jeff and I have actually both written about this because we both think it's a pretty bad thing when companies go back and reduce or remove pro rata rights from investors who have bet on them early. I don't have a good answer, honestly. I think it's kind of crappy. I think you should fight it to the degree that you can um but know your strength in any of those situations um and know how like how to fight and how far to fight on it um and at the end of the day you might get screwed here and there and hopefully that is not the end of the story, right? So I think the message throughout this course and especially Aaron's presentation is don't be penny wise and pound foolish. If you've invested in a fantastic startup that you really want prorated and don't get it, you're going to make most of your money on the original investment. And so you should not ruin your reputation or in any way ruin the chance of that company getting a deal, if that's what you're being told. However, it sucks if you have contractual pro rata. The YC Safe gives you contractual pro rata in all rounds except the round that it converts in. And if the founder who you believed in before anyone else takes that away from you, well, that merits a conversation at the very least. And by the way, most of the time when this happens, it is not, the founder doesn't even know. And if the founder did know, they would put their foot down because it's up to them. I'll talk a little bit about this at the very end. But I do think that the process of taking away pro-rata's that are contractually agreed is not a good one. I understand why it happens. It's complicated. It can be a pain in the butt to have to go around and figure out what your pro rata is with everyone is. But if you contractually agree to it, well, that's a promise, right? And sorry, one last thing. For what it's worth, there is something we do for all of our companies now as part of our series A process. We proactively model out for them what pro-rata's look like and dilution looks like in different scenarios such that they can plan for it ahead of time. Planning is huge. The thing that we saw happen was basically people just didn't plan and they agreed to things. They didn't realize the implications. That's usually why a founder has gone back and tried to change it. And if they have the information ahead of time, they will usually protect their angels. Not all cases, but most often. Yeah? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So the question is, is it reasonable to ask for things like prorata in a side letter, especially if they're not using the standard safe, or even if they are using the standard safe, which does not give you prorata in the converting round? What's reasonable to ask for? Where should you draw the line? So this goes back to the point that I was making around during negotiation, know what the terms are, know what's standard, and know what your leverage is. I am of the negotiating school that it never hurts to ask for things that you think you deserve and you think you want if those things are standard, right, or if those things are within the realm of expectation. And then know how much leverage you have to push on it. I think pro rata is a pretty standard thing. I think it's normal to ask for it, something that I always want if I make an angel investment because I believe they're valuable and I think it's the right thing to do. That isn't true of 2x participating preferred. Now what I have seen is some angels will push their leverage as far as possible because they know a company is desperate and they'll get things. And okay, they won that skirmish, but they will lose the overall war. Yes? Yes. . So the question revolves around the sort of two sides to the reputation market. One side is with founders and one side is with your fellow investors. And how to think about times when perhaps those two things might come into conflict. when perhaps those two things might come into conflict? So I actually don't think there are that many situations where those two things are in conflict. I think one situation in which it could be in conflict is this thing you're mentioning, where a founder asks you for a recommendation to an investor and you don't feel so comfortable with it. So in a situation where you're not an investor in the company, you're just talking to them, you say, you know, I really only feel comfortable recommending companies that I invested in. That's the way you get through that one. And if there's a situation where a founder asks you for a recommendation to a company, you don't feel comfortable with it, this is the thing where I talked about being honest. Tell the founder, hey, while I would love to be able to recommend you, I don't think this is the right fit for this and this reason. And if they're super, super, super persistent, say, no, please do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it. You know, there's introductions and there's introductions and there's recommendations and, you know, make sure they know the kind of recommendation they're getting and the kind of introduction and be honest with them about it. Okay, we're going to take one more question because unfortunately Ron has limited time. So this will be the last one. Yeah, hi. I'd say from a founder's perspective, the most important agreement, the first agreement that you sign, and it's not with an investor. It's among the other groups. There's a professor from USC, Nolan Wasserman, kind of a tough one. It's about how founders communicate what their cap table looks like as they come and talk to investors and solicit investment. Do I have that right? So I think it's normal for an investor to ask for a cap table, and I think it's fine for founders to show them the cap table. to ask for a cap table and I think it's fine for founders to show them the cap table. That's pretty pertinent information because it... Yeah. So asking more than just what the cap table is, but what sort of agreements you have? Again, this question sort of revolves around how much due diligence should early stage investors do? And I do think it's fair to ask about those things. I would argue, however, that it will almost never have an impact on whether you invest or not. The cap table might if you see wildly strange equity splits. It's not a good sign for companies. In fact, we ask about it at YC. We don't tend to ask so much about founder agreements because imagine, would you not invest in Dropbox or Airbnb because of some founder agreement that you found suboptimal? What you might do as an investor, once you're an investor, is give advice as to what sort of founder agreements might make sense in the future. In general, your due diligence as an early stage investor is pretty limited. And in fact, it's easy to tell a bad early stage investor because they ask for too much. Say, you know, what are your pro forma income statements over the next three years? Really? This is a company that is trying to figure out how they're gonna get revenue. You're asking for the wrong information that will not help you make a decision. So, thank you, Aaron. Thank you.