 Maybe the best place to start is, which seemingly was the most common question, Ro asked it and a couple other people on Twitter, how do you source stories? That's a really good question, and it's one that we're sort of working to answer sort of more systematically. more systematically. So right now, stories have come, like sort of like, well, so part of it, part of it's like, we're not sourcing stories, we're sourcing podcasts. So, so on one level, the people who are sourcing stories are the actual teams themselves. So like The Nod, one of our podcasts, it has this whole editorial process around finding stories that they're going to do. And Startup has a whole editorial process and Reply All has a whole editorial process. So that's team by team. And those teams know sort of like what their shows are about and what their audiences are into. So they have a process by doing that. And it's sort of the normal process of just sort of like reading widely, talking to people on the phone, going out and hearing stories at cocktail parties, whatever it is, you know, and it's sort of like, uh, finding something in the news that piques your interest in making some phone calls. Like that's always, that's, that's the way stories are sort of like, there's no magic formula to it. You just, you sort of like it's like um it's not the actual plot line it's the it's the sort of like i i remember this uh somebody i for a while like somebody at this american life was was friends with one of the people who started friends the tv show friends yeah and um Friends. And Alexa was her name. And she was on the show a couple of times. She did a couple episodes. And I remember, I think somebody was telling me a secondhand story about how she talked about sort of coming up with the idea for Friends. And she was like, starting a TV show is like, you want it to be just specific enough so that there's something that you can remember about it but then also very very open and basically you always need a couch sort of like where action can happen you know and uh and so i feel like uh like sourcing a podcast is sort of similar to that you need like what's it needs to be about something but it can't be the concept can't be too binding otherwise you're not going to be able to find enough stories to sort of keep it going yeah now sometimes it can be sort of a limited series and we do a couple of those and we're and like we're we go back and forth on sort of like what the model is for that and can they you know can they be profitable or not um so some of it goes back to economics but if like the basic unit is the regularly occurring sort of weekly or almost weekly podcast, like let's say that's the basic sort of template of podcasting, those come to us a couple different ways. Sometimes people inside the company have ideas and we'll sort of do a piloting process to try to see if we can sort of make it. We'll make it and see how it sounds. People pitch us from the outside. Sometimes we will acquire shows that already exist out in the world um and we've done done that and we've done it a bunch of different ways um yeah because it's sort of it's not all that different from you know someone interested in doing a startup sizing a market and so when someone pitches you an idea are you like hmm intuitively this feels like it has legs or do you do any kind of like analytical process around the picking a show we don't do any kind of analytical process around it and and and partly because it's not like it's it's like we don't right now the the the sort of like the main the capital that we need to start a show is is human capital right we need somebody who who has a vision has expertise uh and um and can sort of make it make it happen so we need somebody who can sort of like take it and run and so a lot of times what we're looking for is somebody who has a vision. It's sort of like the startup equivalent is sort of you bet on the founder. I think that's even more the case in podcasting if that's possible. And that was one of the mistakes I made early on is sort of like I had a background in doing this. I'd worked on This American Life. I'd helped start Planet Money with Adam Davidson. I had this experience doing this i'd worked on this american life i'd helped start planet money with adam davidson like i had like this experience doing this and so i sort of just thought that like okay i can i can sort of help start all these other ones but i don't have enough time or bandwidth to sort of like be involved with in more than one or two and if the company's growing i don't have any bandwidth to do that anyway so so we need people sort of like showrunner types or sort of like hosts who can sort of like lead the vision. And so that's, that's a complicated set of qualities. You need, they need skill, they need sort of like, they need a vision, they need leadership ability. You know, there's like, it's, it's, it's tricky. So we're looking for people like that and what do you look for in an acquisition aside from content and you know kind of founders hosts that you believe in are there particular numbers that you look for when you're gonna you're gonna make an acquisition of some yeah i mean we're looking for somebody who could who could be a good fit yeah obviously we're looking for um somebody who who pops so like wendy um zuckerman is a good example like that. Like that was a show that we acquired. She had her show is called Science Versus. And that was something that she was doing out of Australia. And we heard it. And what it, so she had a pretty good audience on her own, like that she'd sort of built more or less independently with just her and her producer, Caitlin. Can you talk about that specifically, like roughly what was yeah so we heard it we really like she was just like clearly like just like a magnetic yeah right like she's just like she's so funny so smart just so so engaging um and the premise seemed really good we talked to her about like sort of like what her audience was like and it was pretty it was pretty solid especially given that she'd been doing it all by herself is that like a hundred thousand downloads is that ten thousand downloads at a million uh it's not a million uh no i mean i think if you're if you're if you've gotten over if you've gotten up to a hundred thousand independently yeah you're doing really well you're big time yeah yeah that's that's pretty good yeah um so uh it was like, and so we're looking for something. But if you're somewhere in that, you know, sort of getting close to that number independently, that's a pretty good sign. Okay. And then it's just a matter of like sort of like how much can we help? How much can we expose? How many more people can we expose you to? How much, you know, sort of like how much can we help with marketing and stuff um so with wendy it was it worked it worked really well we were able to sort of like take her audience and sort of multiple it you know several times over um and surround her with the team to make it possible for her to get more work out at a quality that she was she was striving for but you know just like by herself was really really hard to like get to you know she didn't have the luxury of sort of like auditioning sort of different experts on a topic and finding the best one you know what i mean she had to go with the expert that she got and sometimes they were just dry as dust and so like you know that shows in the in the product so if she can sort of cycle through a couple experts until she finds the one who's like more engaging to talk to that's a that's a win it's such a huge advantage because i i previously before yc was doing a podcast on my own with my friend and you know we we were fortunate in that you know like we knew someone at mailchimp right so they would help out and that's great but it really becomes a grind when you're doing it on your own so observing you guys from afar i was like oh my god this is such a perfect opportunity to start acquiring content yeah because as a sole creator you have like no support behind you well and that's exactly so that so our latest acquisition is the pitch which i'm sure your listeners are familiar with and and that's a that's a perfect example of that like josh muccio you know started this podcast sort of like by himself out of his him and his wife sort of working from his house in florida and he and he's exactly sort of like he's got this drive. He's got a vision for what he's trying to do. He's like been tweaking. He's been learning. He's like sort of like learned all he can on his own. He's read every single thing that's ever been put up on Transom, you know, sort of like radio website. And he was just ready, you know, to sort of like have, you know, take it further and like sort of go to the next, next level with, with his show. And so that's, it was just like, it seemed like a very obvious sort of fit. And what about the new people? What about someone who's, you know, maybe just graduating college and wants to work at Gimlet? Like what are the qualities you look for in them to be like, oh man, you might be, you might have a fit here. We're looking for, so oh man you might be you might have a fit here uh we're looking for so we're looking for um a couple of things we're looking for sort of creativity obviously um we're looking for like the ability to get shit done um do you do a trial we we i mean we have a like an application process a lot of times with a lot of the jobs that we do we'll have like some sort of like a a sort of a homework assignment that we'll give people sort of like a trial you know sort of like edit this interview or sort of like you know sort of like give us you know sort of like critique this story something like that just to sort of get a sense of how they think editorially curiosity is really important sense of humor you know we just we um and and empathy is like a big big part of of what we believe is important like you have to you have to be motivated by a desire to to understand um you know as much as a desire as any other desire like sometimes like a lot of people get into sort of like this line of work for a variety of reasons sometimes it's like they really want to like they feel passionately about an issue and they want to sort of bring attention to that issue yeah all that is is true but i but we want like we want it to be you know so proceed from curiosity and understanding and are you guys kind of agnostic to what issue that is because historically i always thought npr and then you know all the npr diaspora like people working on their own content had a certain type of generally like left leaning audience that fit into Brooklyn or wherever. Yeah. Do you guys care for like, you know, it's completely different than that. We don't. So this is I mean, I think honestly, this is a sort of a complicated issue now for media companies that I'm that I'm trying to grapple with. Like, I feel like at NPR, we were perceived as being liberal, and probably the majority of the people working there would call themselves liberal. But we really did strive for objectivity, or at least trying to understand both sides of the issue. We would never just sort of like yeah you know um and and i think the listenership wasn't as like i think it was pretty even it was it wasn't like it wasn't down the middle yeah but that was like there was something like 30 to 40 percent of the listeners were identified as conservative and it was it was a pretty big you should check that number but it's it was it's a when people hear it it's a surprising number yeah um and certainly the feedback i get like you know sort of like for the first season of startup you know it was like it seemed like pretty you know sort of like evangelical pastors and sort of like brooklyn hipsters and everybody in between um were listening to're listening to, to, to start up. And I think, you know, and we'll still like occasionally like on reply all there was like, um, they, they had a, they, they had something that sort of like let listeners understand that how one of them felt about Trump, you know, and we received a couple of letters saying like, I'm, I voted for Trump. Like, I love the show. Why are you, you know, sort of like, why are you saying that? So it's like, it's not, I don't think, um, so I don't, I don't. And, and honestly, like, I, I like that. Like, I feel like I understand there's like, I, it's tricky. There's like a lot of fear and anger. Um, and especially among communities like that are not white right like especially like um and i think and so i and i want to give voice to that you know what i mean i think there i think we do live in a racist society like and there is white supremacy and like that is real and it's not a political statement. It's a, it's a fact. And it's based on historical, um, you know, things that happened, you know, and 400 years of slavery and a, and a civil war that we never dealt with. And like, you know, and, um, and so like, that is all, that's not political in my mind to say that. But people perceive it politically. And so one of our shows is a show about the Civil War. And I'm shocked by how, when I listen to it, by how fresh and unusual it sounds. And it sounds fresh and unusual it sounds and it sounds fresh and unusual. We just did the most recent episode was called the takedown. And it was sort of like, it was, it was a live show that they put on at the bell house. It was crazy. Like it, it was, um, it featured the Nicole Hannah Jones, who just went into MacArthur grant outlets. And who's like a prominent podcast host and Christie Coleman, the CEO of the, um, and Christy Coleman, the CEO of the American Civil War Museum. And then the host, Chandra Akumunyika, and his other host, Jack Hitt. And it was sort of like they were talking about the most pervasive myths about the Civil War that they constantly encounter on Twitter. And what was and the shocking thing that felt so fresh and new about it was that four of the five people on the stage were black. And like that almost never happens, you know, in conversations about the Civil War, which was about slavery, you know? And so, like, by the way, that's one of the myths that it wasn't about slavery. It was about slavery. And so, and like, that's sort of crazy that, like, you have so much conversation about the Civil War and how often black voices are not represented in that conversation. Yeah. Um, when black people in America were at the center of the, of the conflict and, and, and the legacy of America results from the civil war. And so, and so that, I know that, and I know people listen to that. And like we, you know, every once in a while we'll get a comment like that feels political to people. And I guess it is, but it just feels like true. It just feels like this is crazy that like it's 2017 and this feels new. That we have like four of the five intellectuals on stage talking about the Civil War are black and that feels new and revelatory. of the five intellectuals on stage talking about the civil war black and that feels new and revelatory. So yeah. So I, so, so, and I think I have a media company now and there are a lot of voices that don't get represented in media and it feels like, yeah, I want to use that platform to help represent those voices right because i've kind of been wondering how how you're driven you know um obviously there are podcasts like that one maybe like dan carlin uh hardcore history that are super educational right and where you guys are kind of drawing the line in terms of like this is our mission we're educating about certain issues or it's just about compelling storytelling or maybe it's something else entirely like do you guys have a defined goal as to what your products are and what they do right i don't so we don't like i would never want to say that like i mean we take engagement very seriously so anything that is like it was really informative but it wasn't very fun to listen to like that's that's a lose right like you definitely want to be i don't want people to feel like they should listen to it but they don't want to yeah be like the you know uh the thomas pickety of podcasts and i will read wikipedia exactly uh so but but i feel like the but i feel like um here's the way i think about it is sort of like there's like I think there's three big buckets of why people listen to podcasts. So one of them is to just be one of those because they is for companionship. Like they like the hosts and like it's fun to hang out with them. And like there's a whole bunch of podcasts that are that are like that like um joe rogan i think is a is a great example like right like just people howard stern um oh like rush you know sort of like there's like you feel like oh they're your buddy you know we're we're we all speak we're all we're all talking together and it's fun to hang out with you and you guys are funny and like and even like the slate gab fest a lot of those are sort of like there's there's this sort of i these are friends that i they feel like friends the hosts so that's one uh second i think they just want to be told a good gripping story we've been telling stories to each other since we came up with the ability to speak uh and like podcasting is just a sort of extension of that and so like i feel like you get you get Dirty John, a lot of the big. A lot of your stuff. A lot of our stuff. A lot of like the sort of like S-Town, you know, is just sort of like just narrative. Like the bulk of it is just narrative. And then the third big bucket is like they want to learn something. So a lot of, so podcasting is one of the things that you can do while you're not doing something else. You don't need to be at a screen. So you're cleaning the house or working out or, you know, sort of like, you know, driving to work or whatever. And it's, it, you feel like, oh, I'm multitasking now in a way that feels productive. And so I get to learn something. And so like, you know, like a big example. And so, example and so so learning i think is a big use case for podcasting so we just try to figure out like okay what are we doing and right now we've we and we try to do all of them like the the big ones can sort of bring storytelling bring that companionship and bring something that you learn and those feel like you know and i and i feel like um reply reply often does that they definitely have the companionship and they definitely have the storytelling down a lot of times you're learning something along the way as well. You know, I think so. A lot of our podcasts are doing are trying to trying to do do all three and might focus more on one or the other. Interesting. So a lot of our listeners are also founders and are also thinking about spaces as both just like interesting, but markets where they could potentially build something. So maybe it does make a little bit of sense to talk about the podcast industry more specifically than just the content stuff you guys started three years ago how has it changed since you started and where do you see it going given like the uh current proliferation of like audio stuff in your home airpods all that kind of stuff right so it's i mean it's changed quite a bit like i think i think it has changed much more quickly than i than i thought like i was in this for a long time you know like starting like i remember when we first put our first put out this american life as a podcast and there's like i think i don't know 5 000 people listen to it or something like that you know uh and then you know sort of like i was doing planet money for like five years before leaving and and and so and just sort of like it was like sort of changing and evolving and growing but not at the clip and then sort of like then we started and cereal came along and then boom and everything just like sort of i think i think in large part because of cereal in large part because of us i, in large part because of us, I think. And then just sort of timing, like all the ones who were already there were sort of like started picking up. And it just became just a lot more mainstream awareness, a lot more advertising dollars flowing into it, and a lot more content creators coming on board. So that's great. I mean, overall, that's fantastic. I think the ecosystem is, is growing. Um, it changes things a little bit, like in terms of sort of like, uh, you've got to bring your A game when it comes to sort of like content, but also sort of like have a, have a much more robust marketing strategy when you, you know, it's becomes a little bit more sort of like a traditional media company where you gotta, you gotta figure out like how, what's your marketing plan, who are your partners and, you know, sort of rolling it out, that sort of thing. And then I think people are paying more attention to it. Like the platforms are paying a lot more attention to it now. So like Spotify, TuneIn, and of course Apple. Apple was the dominant just sort of like by accident. They created the category. Thank you very much, Apple. And was the dominant, just sort of like by, by accident, they created the category, you know, thank you very much Apple. And, uh, it sort of created this whole ecosystem, but like the ecosystem, even though it was getting larger by our standards, by Apple standards was still like a tiny, you know, sort of rounding error. Totally. And now it's gotten beyond rounding error status. And so they're starting to pay attention as well. Um, which is all you know so like i think now there are the platforms are like starting to starting to sort of like compete a little bit and you see you know sort of you see like sort of like deals around content happening and that sort of thing so so that's that's that's also really exciting because distribution is so difficult still i mean it's been hard but now it's like both hard to discover and competitive yeah and so what do you guys do when you have a brand new show and you're like we need to start this out with i don't know like whatever your benchmark is for like a good amount of listeners in the beginning how do you make that happen yeah i mean that's changed a little bit like we it used to be um that we didn't have to do as much you know i think the landscape has gotten more crowded i think also like politics has become a much bigger storyline and you've got shows coming out like pot save america and the daily that have brought a lot of new people into podcasting but like it's like a you know they're focused on sort of like the craziest story that's happening right now which is you know sort of like you know the presidency uh and so like the craziest story that's happening right now, which is, you know, sort of like, you know, the presidency. And so that's been interesting. So, but what we do is what we, you know, we have a nice network now of, you know, sort of of listeners. And we have, you know, millions of unique listeners now that we can sort of put new shows in front of um that works uh we also need to start finding other audiences right so like we have you know sort of millions of unique listeners um but then there's like lots of other people who sort of would listen but don't know about podcasting or don't know. And those people are like sort of like they are – there's like this continual drift, right? The category is growing for sure. But that just takes more work and it's just sort of like a longer sort of like it's like you've got to give shows time basically like we've got a sort of like we part of it is like you got to get the editorial sort of like where is cranking and so like shows almost every show that we ever launched has been sort of like a little editorially wobbly in the beginning as it gets its feet it's like it's like it's just a crazy yeah it's just a crazy thing it's like yeah exactly they're startups they're their own little startups so they come out, they get solid, they start producing sort of work at a consistent quality. Then they get written about, maybe they become guests on other shows. Maybe they sort of like start doing partnerships with other publications, you know, just sort of like getting their name out into the world. Maybe they do like a joint production with a larger podcast out there. There's all sorts of strategies. Like, I mean, the best place to find podcast listeners is, is on other podcasts. That's, that's, that's still true. We haven't figured out a great way of sort of migrating people from sort of like the realm of Facebook and Twitter into the realm of listening. Yeah. You know, it's tricky. Well, we can, we do YouTube for that exact reason and it's been super effective. How does that work? So tell me about how it works. Yeah, totally. So, um, like I said, the podcast I did previously, we were, um, we were always struggling with your same issue. Like how do people find it? And then how do people find the episode from like two years ago? Right. Which it sucks. It's still bad. Like there are lots of things you can do around transcription, which is somewhat helpful. But if you Google anything, look where the videos show up in the ranking. It's super high. Yeah. So like the actual way it works is we record video when we do the podcast. I edit the video, which is then exported to the podcast. Right. And then I title that like, you know, interview with Alex Bloomberg of Gimlet Media. And then I cut up the video into like five more videos that have very specific titles for instance how to make a podcast how to market your podcast like how gimlet works right and those numbers will dwarf like the actual interview listen numbers uh our podcast numbers are still really high but this like you don't have retention data so i don't actually know because they're just subscribers right so you know like you have tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of subscribers but how engaged are they yeah um so basically what we try and do is like use youtube as marketing for the podcast right and just own those like subscriber channels and it's been pretty good so far um especially when you get a big name person right with the little names it's like still not the same but yeah it's been super effective so what how much more like how many more views do you have on the youtube segments than you do and then you do listeners on the podcast so our podcasts do like 10 to 100 000 downloads per episode okay And then the YouTube views will, depending on the person, will be about the same. Uh-huh. Which is amazing. Yeah. Because I don't think they're the same people. Right. And I think a lot of people are finding the podcast through that because those often get shared, whereas the podcasts don't get shared. Right. In the same way. Right. Yes. don't get shared right in the same way right yes podcast sharing it's hard to share podcast it's so difficult it's really it's very very you don't you can't just like shoot it at work and and part of the problem i think so one of the to me i think this is like one of the paradoxes one of the many paradoxes of sort of building a media business based on audio um the great thing about audio is that like it does exist in this sort of separate realm, right? Like when you, most of the time, like if, if I'm at my desk or I'm on my screen or I'm looking at something, I'm using my eyes, um, to say, read an article. I'm like that article is competing for my eyes attention with a gazillion other things. It's competing with Facebook and Twitter and movies and like all every single, you know, sort of like name on the planet who's launching their prestige television series. And like every, you know, sort of like everything out there is competing with for my eyes. Then you've got like audio, which is over here. You're not going to you're not going to necessarily listen to audio while you're streaming, while you're like sort of on your phone looking through Twitter or whatever. You're going to listen to audio while you're mowing the lawn, where you can't be doing those other things. So it's separate and like in a nice way, you know, you're driving to work, whatever, you can't be looking at a screen. So all audio is competing with is other audio or music basically, you know, right. So that's great for us. Like it feels like much more like we don't have nearly the menace that every if i was launching sort of like a digital media company right now just sort of like like trying to write articles or video or whatever the landscape is so crowded so it's good the bad part of that is that like you don't like in this world when you're driving to work like you're not going to just be like oh that's funny i'm going to put it on my facebook there's not like there's not the mechanism even to share yeah if you wanted to it's consumed in a different way so it's harder to even figure out like you get lost in it and you're not like the the distractiveness of like sort of like i-based media you know is that like is its advantage when it comes to sharing because you're always like sort of checking something out you're always doing two things at once and so it's easy to just sort of like be watching something and then pop it over into your facebook feed and share it like instantaneously the sharing doesn't even the sharing doesn't capture the magic it's like if you were to tell me a joke and then i were to write one line down and then share it it's like usually that's only used against you yeah like you see your comedians complain about this all the time it's like that was out of context yes and similarly with podcasts like yeah yeah you know have this great conversation and one part is particularly funny only if you know the background yeah and so you've had all the build-up to it and everything like that and like the moment by itself won't work unless you've had all the yeah no i mean yeah that's the that's the problem with with narrative so so on the one hand it's our advantage and i feel like it's like sort of allows us to build this business you're sort of pioneers in this space on the other hand like how do we get people into the space how do we get other people who are already in the space to know about us like that's that's still a challenge that we're trying to figure out where do you guys fall now on because in season one of startup you were talking a lot about technology maybe building technology yeah how has your thinking changed in the past couple years around that so well i think early on we made the decision that sort of like to focus on our strengths and if you look around here we've got like you know we've got 80 some people here you know the vast majority of those people are editorial yeah based like they're making podcasts either random podcasts for either a branded podcast for Gimlet Creative or editorial podcast for Gimlet Media. And up until like a couple, up until about a month ago, we didn't have one technology person on the team. Really? Yeah. That's awesome. So we were very old school. At this point, we have recently uh i hired somebody ahead of product and we recently um and we're and and i think that's going to be that will definitely be a larger part of what we do yeah um how exactly we use technology is is is still is still, is still TBD. Yeah. It does. It seems less likely that if we were ever going to build like our own platform, that seems less and less likely, like just because, you know, the Spotify's and the tune-ins and the apples are definitely like for a while, like they weren't really paying attention now they're definitely paying attention. And so it just seems like that's to take that space now just seems like you it's like a big long shot and we're not at all set up to to even try to do that right well especially if it's you because like individual podcast hosts are incentivized for downloads so they actually don't want to be captured by platforms and so i if i'm a host i'm like i don't care where i put it this is not obvious to people who uh download podcasts from itunes right but it doesn't work the same way as a song it's an rss feed yeah and so it's just you can point it at anything and have it go out there yeah and i think the only people right now are just doing maybe like paid apps so like i think mark maron still does this right he has a maron app so you get the 50 most recent episodes and you can get the old ones right maybe that's good for individual creators but for you guys yeah i don't know no we would we would want to be and i think there is there is a we we would like to go direct to listener somehow and like sort of like just because like that's you know like we want to deepen our relationship with the listener and like we want to and then and i think there might be other sort of revenue opportunities associated with like a direct a more direct connection with the listener um but uh but how exactly do we do that what's the mechanism um it will involve technology what that technology will look like we're still not sure of so one question uh that came from twitter i want to get their name right is um oh swing ventures asks are you concerned about how the podcast landscape may change when more analytics become available for example chart beats impact on journalism i mean i'm concerned about everything and that is one of them i don't i don't you know uh it's you know like everything there's a there's a good side and a bad side right like so so like right now there's a lot of advertisers who would be interested in advertising and podcasting who are sitting on the sidelines because you just can't provide the same kind of analytics that you can in other forms of digital media so they're just like well until we know what we're getting with our money we're not gonna we're not gonna spend here um and so analytics will absolutely help the overall sort of like advertising landscape which more advertisers being interested in the space should theoretically help us like you know that more demand for the inventory should mean a higher price for the inventory, even if we discover that there's certain listen-through rates are different than what we expected or whatever. I don't think we're going to be that surprised. We have access to some of that information already through some of these other platforms. Some of the other platforms let you see what see like what the decay rates are that sort of thing so so we we we can see analytics are getting better yeah a lot better yeah um so we we sort of know and then a lot of the and and then for a lot of the the advertisers especially the direct response advertisers like the squarespace's and the and the um the caspers and and people like that like where it's sort of like it is very sort of like it's not like oh this sort of like murky sort of like proposition where like we're going to advertise here and hopefully people feel better about us it's a very much like a like people sign up for squarespace it's a formula yeah and if they they know like here's how much we spend here's how many like customers we, here's lifetime value of those customers, it is worth it for us to advertise at these rates or not. Right. And so that's also a pretty good market test. Like, people are advertising at the rates that we're charging, and they continue to sign up. Yeah. And so that means that it's working. Do you have strong opinions on what type of content is gonna is will be doing well in the future um like the landscape has seemed to have shifted a little bit i mean it's probably just broadening so there's room for everything yeah um but are you seeing trends in like certain types of content whether it's like uh subject matter length uh type of host uh style of host that's just like coming out of nowhere and really dominating yeah i mean well clearly like crime and true crime people love crime yeah it's like and i think that was like sort of like serial inadvertently sort of like cracked that open and and it's just been sort of like it's been non-stop ever since so like after serial and that was like i don't think that was i know obviously i'm very close with all the people who worked on the serial team and and that was that was a story that they were interested in personally but they don't have they're not like interested in true crime as a genre yeah um so it was like largely accidental i think but but um uh so but that like ever since serial there's been like tons and tons of true crime and like they've all they've all done very well um it's seemingly sort of like sort of like across the spectrum of sort of like produced non-produced sort of like you know there's some that are like talk shows just sort of discussing sort of like what they find online there's some that are sort of like following a single case throughout twists and turns. There's some all in the middle. And like they all do pretty well. You know, we launched, you know, sort of a crime related show, Crime Town, which is sort of like about crime and politics and sort of the interplay between the two. And that did really well for us. You know, i think there's a lot of mobsters and gangsters and you know it's you know it's interesting you know what about stuff like like lore i saw that they have an i think it's an amazon show now is that that transition to video interesting to you guys oh yeah absolutely we're doing that i mean we're there are a couple questions about it we have a bunch we have a bunch of projects in the works um sort of translating stuff that first appeared in audio into video um most notably i guess is the abc sitcom uh alex inc um which is gonna come out i guess this this winter um which is based on season one of startup sort of like the alex character is played by zach braff um uh there's um you know our fiction podcasts our first fiction podcast homecoming uh is going to be made into we got a two-season deal with amazon um that's gonna launch sometime in 2018 uh and that's exciting that's starring julia roberts in the in the lead role so life is weird that's bizarre uh what about this what about the stuff you had to kill or you just decided to kill along the way like how are you making those choices yeah i mean i think a lot of it is sort of like yeah i mean i think a lot of it is sort of like it's like it all comes down to sustainability okay and and and that can mean a couple of different things like sometimes there's like sometimes the the concept is like just too complicated to pull off at the at the frequency we need to need to pull it off um uh and it's hard like i come from this background of like sort of like when we were first pitching this i was talking about like sort of like how how we were going to be distinguished like you know several years ago i was pitching investors how are we going to distinguish our our material from like podcasts out there and i was just sort of like oh ours is going to be produced and we're going to like sort of like you, so we're going to like hire teams and we take this very seriously, the craft of it. And one of our investors, I remember saying, so he's like, so it sounds like you're just saying you're going to do what everybody else does, but just, it's going to be a lot more expensive to produce. And I was like, yeah, I sort of am saying that. And the hope is, which has been somewhat borne out by the facts is that like when you take the attention to detail you crack through to a different realm of audience than than than something that isn't that that isn't as highly produced yeah now there was lots of caveats number one being like you can have like a a talk show joe rogan is a perfect example where it's just like it does monster numbers it has monster engagement and like and like there's there's not it doesn't take months to produce each episode uh no yeah uh so and it's great you know what i mean and it's like it's great like there there's there's great live a lot of the great things about like that are showing up in in our episodes are showing up on you know in in in his his podcast as well and like there's some people who are just great live and like that's sort of lightning in a bottle those people are that is much harder than i have so much respect for that doing this video stuff is is an absolute education in holding conversations with people because before when i did just an audio podcast editing is magic and all of a sudden everyone's smarter and funnier and it's just like really zippy yeah and now i've really had to learn about like how to control the energy in a room when you're having a conversation because we edit this but not nearly as much as we used to yeah audio yeah yeah that's really wild so so anyway so but that so that we were making these sort of more expensive but then like sometimes like that like and and like a lot of times like you can have like this amazing sort of concept in it and it's like yeah it's thrilling and people everybody it becomes the thing that people discuss and people want to hear it um but like if we can't if it can't be sustainable if it can't come out a certain number of times a year then there's no way to there's no way to make it okay money um sometimes it's sort of like the is it are the is the is the team passionate about the the thing that they're doing and if not it doesn't make sense to continue it's better to find something that the host is passionate about rather than try to sort of match the host with some sort of material that you think could work. And that was a lesson we learned early on. Interesting. I think with Sampler, for example, was a show where it was like a podcast about podcasts. And the host was Brittany Luce, who we'd heard hosting another show for colored nerds. And she's great. She's got this great energy on the mic. And so we were just like, hey, Brittany, come and host this thing. And she was like, yeah, that's great. But it's like, and it was, it did, it was fine. It was a, it was a pretty good, it was a pretty good podcast and she did a really good job and like we, we liked it, but it wasn't like her passion. And like, it was, it was doing fine, but it wasn't doing gangbusters we were like well let's just let's just have you host a show that you like cared deeply about and let's see if we can do that and so we sort of shut that down restarted we hired her other co-host eric eddings and we launched the nod which is sort of like a celebration of black culture their sort of tagline is blackness's biggest fans and like that show is like you know that that's that and and like the energy of that show and just sort of the the feeling of it is just like it's it's really exciting so like they just they just feel it and they're like it's like it's got a lot of energy i think that's so critical like people underestimate how important it is to just come in really strong and have that vibe because most podcast um listeners have picked their shows, in my experience, because they engage with this person, like you were saying before, that first category. There's that Joe Rogan type person where folks just bond with them. And when that's done poorly, it puts people off. More often than not, when I talk about like, hey, we do a podcast with YC, we interview people that are interested in tech or kind of in that space. They're like, oh, is it just a bunch of like dudes talking around mics, like goofing on each other? Right. And that's like, let's put a dent in the podcast world. It seems like it's slowed it down quite a bit. Yeah. Because more often than not, that's how people were introduced to it. Yeah Yeah, that's how people think. That's what people think a podcast is. It's just sort of like a bunch of people sort of like, you know, pontificating around, you know, mics, you know, to each other and cracking jokes or whatever. And, and like, I think there's a lot of great, like a lot of people, there's a lot of podcasts like that, that have like, very devoted fan bases that like that love that. And like, if you love the subject matter that like those that people are wisecracking about, then you're down for that. Like, that's great. And you make a habit of listening to that podcast and those those grow and do well. It's just like to cut through to get beyond like the small group of people that are going to be interested in whatever it is you're talking about, you know, just already. Yeah. Like you need to bring you need to bring some production to it to sort of like grow the audience beyond that. yeah like you need to bring you need to bring some production to it to sort of like grow the audience beyond that so if i wanted to start a podcast today and i was a solo person not affiliated with a big company not within a podcast network what would you recommend i do to educate myself before i get started um so i think well there's like a lot of online resources uh i did a course i did a course on creative live which was um which was pretty much everything i know about making audio combined into two days of listening and watching uh which i think it's a it's it's definitely still available and it's like you have to you have to buy it but it's like yeah sometimes they run specials and it's definitely worth it. There's like a bunch of free resources on transom.org, which is like a, it's run by this great guy, Jay Allison, who's like a long time public radio sort of like mensch. Basically he's just been, he's, he's like, he's great. And he was like early on in my career, he was like really helpful. And he's just, he runs this invaluable thing called transom um where he just gets everybody from across mostly public radio but like like a lot of like the best sort of most exciting people inside the public radio world so that strain of the podcasting universe um they just sort of lay out these manifestos where they just sort of talk about their their tricks they also have like field guide recorder reviews and sort of like it's just like invaluable stuff like that um there's um there's a guy pat flynn who does like the passive i think i think it's called the passive income podcast i've listened to that one yeah yeah and um he has a couple youtube tutorials i think that are just sort of like here's how you set up your your system yeah to do it he's focused much more on sort of like the sort of daily here's how you know here's how you do something yeah um but that's but it's like he's they're they're good solid like you know sort of like tutorials um and then uh and then i think just doing it like Like to me, the big thing is to find a friend who you trust and who's easily bored. And just like do it, get better at like just build stuff. Like whatever you want to do, like whoever your hero is, copy them. build stuff like whatever you want to do like whoever your hero is copy them and understand that you're going to be so much worse than whoever your hero is and you're also going to be different and you're going to think you're copying them but you're not but that's okay you'll get to the difference later just try to be as close as you can in the beginning and and i think that's like i mean ira glass gives us advice you know sort of who's my mentor and sort of like um which is sort of like you have to start with some with a vision of what you want to be and then like you copy that and then eventually you'll find your way to your own voice through copying yeah but like if you're just starting out i'm an original i'm gonna do it my way yeah like it's really hard i think there are people who can do that and maybe you will be the tsla of podcasting and publish your masterpiece at 21 and like that's fine but i don't think uh i don't think that happens that often much more often i think you just you you you try to copy somebody who you admire you suck at it and along the way you learn some things you learn a lot because you know you talk to someone and so many things go unsaid because either they're assumed or it's just style and it's like innate were there any things that um kind of like non-obvious interviewing strategies that you picked up whether it's here or at npr yeah yeah i mean i think so a big part is like um i think i think interviewing what people respond to when you're interviewing somebody so if you're doing the kind of podcasts that that do mostly, the fundamental building block of that kind of podcast is the interview. And the fundamental building block of a good interview is two things. One, you want people to tell you stories. There was this one thing that happened to me this one day. I was at home. I went outside, blah, blah, blah. You want a story. It has a beginning. It has a middle. It has a punchline. That's building block number one. If you have people who are telling you stories, that's great. The other fundamental building block is emotion. It's like emotional honesty where people are talking in a real way about something. And some people are just good at that in general. They talk, they're emotionally present when they talk um and those people are generally better interviews um but then some people are like more guarded most people are more guarded but occasionally you'll get to a moment of genuine emotional honesty and i'm not talking about it has to be sad sometimes it can be happy sometimes it can be laughter sometimes it can be confusion whatever but something real um that you're that you're that's the other building block of an interview and so um so i always say that like a good interview is like is like a good therapy session where you're just trying to get people to put their feelings into words and so a lot of times if you're talking about something that has any kind of emotional stakes to it, there's, um, there's a moment where you're going to sort of like hear something in somebody's voice and you're going to want to press further and you're going to want to try to get to like, there was a, there's a funny feeling in the thing that they said, and you're going to want to try to explore that funny feeling. And that's where the gold is. Um, so trying, training is um so trying training yourself to sort of be aware of that and sort of like getting people to talk about it without prying and without being confrontational but just sort of like getting them to open up about it and feel comfortable opening up so part the best thing you can do in an interview is listen like that's the number one thing um be yourself understanding that like you as the interviewer are part of the drama like there's like a great question with a great answer is is riveting nobody will turn it off if you ask a great question like i remember there was this when i sort of more sort of transform like a big turning point in my career was this this show i did for this american life me and adam davidson did it together it's called the giant pool of money it was about the mortgage crisis and it was like an hour-long sort of explainer came out in 2008 sort of like what's going on with the housing bubble and sort of all that stuff that's happened and we it was this big long thing we reported out for for months and months and there was it started with this question where this guy had we were talking to this guy at one at a foreclosure sort of like event where he was like sort of talking about like this massive loan that the bank had given him and he was saying like at the time he didn't have a full-time job he had three not very steady part-time jobs he was making a combined income of maybe 45 000 a year and he got and he got a half million dollar loan from the bank without any paperwork. Basically, they didn't ask him any questions. And he was telling us about how weird it was. And so he was talking about, yeah, they didn't ask me any questions. There was paperwork and stuff like that, but nobody asked how much money I made, how much money I had in the bank, anything like that, what my job was. And I asked him, i was like would you have loaned you the money and like the minute you hear me ask that question nobody is going to turn off the radio right everyone wants to hear the answer and like and and so and he was like no i wouldn't have loaned me the money nobody i know would have loaned me the money i have guys that are criminals who wouldn't have lent me that money and they would break their kneecaps like i remember like you know it's just sort of like that and it was this great answer and it was sort of perfectly set up the whole question which is sort of like why did the banks yeah loan people the money when they themselves wouldn't have loaned them the money right like what's going on so but like that drama of the question and the answer is something that's very real and if i'd screwed up the question if i'd just been nervous about it or if i hadn't asked it right or whatever if i hadn't been like present and just sort of like taking my job seriously and just asking the questions um i would have you know um i would have uh it wouldn't have worked so um so that's that's the thing to also keep in mind is just sort of like you in in audio more than anything you are part of the you're part of the show and so just remember that i think that's a great place to wrap it up yeah cool thanks man all right thank you you