 Ali is the founder and CEO of NEO, which he can explain what that is. It's a very cool new organization. But he's also an entrepreneur, a social entrepreneur, who I admire a ton for the things he's done. We met, like I said, too many years ago when him and his brother founded LinkExchange. like I said, too many years ago when him and his brother founded Link Exchange. He's also the founder of iLike and, again, with his brother, Code.org. In fact, the quote I'd like to pass on from Ali is that both of us are engineers and coders, and I really resonate with this, that coding is a privilege, but that privilege is not available to most Americans. He is doing more than, him and his brother are doing more than any other people in the world to, in the country to bring that privilege to as many people as possible, and I'm extremely grateful for you guys for doing that, and I think it's going to make a big difference in our country in the future so I thought so Elliot's done a ton of angel investing and the reason I really asked him up here is because he's extraordinarily good at it he has made as many great bets as anyone. And what we should try to tease out here, for me, is how the hell he does that. But I'd like to start off maybe talking a little bit about his experience as an entrepreneur. Maybe you can tell us a little bit about that. Start in the beginning, I guess, with LinkExchange. How old were you and what was on your mind there? Well, hi, everybody. I'm really very happy to be here. I guess with Link Exchange. How old were you and what was on your mind there? Well, hi everybody. I'm really very happy to be here. So yeah, my career started, I had studied computer science at college and I was working in a software company here, but I really knew I wanted to start my own company. And I had been evaluating different business ideas every week, exchanging email with friends, considering what I was going to start. And then I heard that a couple of my friends from college had already started this company and were looking for someone to join them. And essentially, I think what was really the key to my success in terms of that company was that I was so ready to do it. I learned about it on Sunday. I met them at 10 p.m. and I had basically agreed to join them by 2 a.m. that night. And at 8 a.m. the next morning I told the other company that I was no longer working there and you know immediately began working on Link Exchange with Tony and Sanjay. Link Exchange, this was back in August 1996 and Link Exchange was the first advertising network on the internet. A lot of things that maybe not the most proud things to say, I helped write the first ad server on the internet. Banner ads, a lot of those things. We coined the term click-through rate. A lot of the early concepts in internet advertising were invented by that team. Thank you so much. Really, I'd say the most important thing I learned from being in a startup was the importance of people. In fact, after we sold the company, I was 26 years old when we sold the company to Microsoft and I went from being financially insecure to suddenly being financially independent. My twin brother Hadi at that point was preparing to start his own startup, and he emailed me and said, hey, listen, I'm collecting advice from different people. Could you tell me what are the three most important things, three most important pieces of advice that you would give me as a new founder? And I said, that's easy. Number one, hire great people. Number two, hire great people. Number three, hire great people. And, you know, this had been something I feel very lucky to have learned when I was in my early 20s. And then through a series of, I would say, humbling mistakes, I started also learning that it applies to investing as well. And that was kind of a little bit further down the line. So when you started investing, you didn't necessarily apply that same advice you had given to Hadi. We talked about one of the great characteristics of a great founder is that they're a talent magnet. But that didn't sort of, that connection didn't happen right away. Yeah. So, you know, I should start by saying I didn't think of it as, oh, my new occupation shall be angel investing. It was more like I had just come into wealth. I'd never ever experienced having, you know, more than a small amount of savings before in my life. And I was a little kind of scared of what to do with it what if I mess it up and I suddenly have to learn what what one does with wealth and you know while normal people I guess put it in I don't know funds or higher investment helpers or so on an obvious thing for me to do was that some of the some of the smart people in my own network were starting companies and so it seemed like it made sense for me to support some of them but I would say I had a lot of hubris in that I you know I was 26 I was clearly the best because I just sold my company and so I thought that I had this great business judgment and so when some of the smartest people I knew were starting companies I was applying my enormous business judgment to decide whether it was a good idea or not. And in hindsight, I might have done better to just focus on the fact that somebody brilliant that I know is starting a company and I should just invest based on the person rather than the idea. So to put in context, there was this amazing software engineer who worked for us at Link Exchange. He was actually a contractor. He had his own contract programming company of one person. Or no, he had one employee. But this guy was legendary. He was 22 years old. His name was Max Levchin. And when he started PayPal, the original idea was crap. It was an app for your Palm Pilot device to send money to someone else's Palm Pilot device. No one even app for your Palm Pilot device to send money to someone else's Palm Pilot device. No one even knew what a Palm Pilot device was at the time. And needless to say, PayPal was an excellent investment opportunity, even if that original idea didn't make sense. And it's largely because Max was so smart. And roughly at the same time, one of my smartest friends from college, a guy named Craig Silverstein, basically Craig, my brother Heidi, and I were always competing for who was the best computer programmer. And, you know, he was an amazing, amazingly smart guy. And then over the few years after graduation, he had gone on to do, he went on to academia, pursue graduate school. I clearly had become the best because I was, you know, running my own company and sold it successfully. So when Craig emailed us saying, hey, everybody, I'm finally doing the Silicon Valley thing, joining up with my PhD friends, Larry and Sergey, and I'm going to start a new search engine. And I'm going to be the CTO and first employee of Google. I remember thinking, poor Craig. I mean, did no one tell these guys that there's already 10 other search engines? And, you know, I kind of deleted it. I don't even remember if I responded or not. Terrible mistake, obviously. But again, the same thing applies where it wasn't a great idea. I mean, if I told you today that I was starting a new search engine, you probably would not think it's a good idea either. And it wasn't very different. It was extremely Yahoo dominated search queries and there were several other companies. The point is that when a genius starts a company, it's probably a good idea to invest in it, even if you don't necessarily believe in the idea. We've heard a lot about that over the last three days. You will see a lot about this in your careers as investors that, you know, the right ideas to invest in are the bad ones that are really good. And sometimes brilliant people have lousy ideas. Drew Halston's first idea was test prep. It was a lousy idea. He didn't get into why he combinated with that idea. It was probably right of us to refuse it if he had gone down that path. Who knows where he would have been. How do you know when it's truly a bad idea that's going to crash and burn, no matter how brilliant they are, and when it's just, you just sort of, you know, hold on tight and write the check and go with the brilliance of the founder. Well, you know, I think each person has different things that they're comfortable evaluating or investing in. But for me, I probably don't think of it about bad idea or good idea. I think of it more in terms of big idea or small idea. So if someone is pursuing something that could be enormously huge but has an extremely small chance of success, many people would say that's a bad idea. It'll never make it because 99% chance it'll fail. That might still be a good investment not because it's necessarily a good idea, but because it's a big idea. Whereas if something seems like, oh yeah, this is a sure thing, but it's a very small potential space, like an incremental improvement for a specific field that only a small number of people are in the market for, I would not say it's a bad idea, but that's not going to generate enormous returns. And so it might be a great investment for some people. It's not a great investment for me, and it generally doesn't fit the model for VC investing. So I guess I would say, sorry, I think what I would say is that for me at least, I care more about whether something feels like a really big idea. And to put in context, Airbnb, most people, when they first heard about it, myself included, thought this will never make it. I mean, it was just, it was crazy that ordinary people would open their homes and let some rando show up and stay there. It'll never work. Yeah. But in the off chance that it would make it, it was an enormous concept. And, you know, and it's, I would say it's better to bet on extremely audacious, enormous concepts rather than, you know, something that seems like a higher chance of success, but that would be small. So I'll coin something here. Look for the three Bs then when you're investing. You want a brilliant founder with a big idea that seems bad. And you'll be all set. Did you have any angel investors in LinkExchange? It's so long ago. This was more than 20 years ago. We're not counting. Yeah, it was truly friends and family. So there were distant members of my family, and my co-founder, Tony Hsieh, who's now at Zappos, had one or two family members who invested. But I wouldn't have called them angel investors because they weren't people from... They were the original angels. They were friends. This didn't exist, right? This did not exist. Barely. My combinator obviously didn't exist. We got Ariel Poehler as a board member, and I think he put in a little bit of cash as well. So I guess he was an angel investor. But really our first real money was Draper Richards, which was a VC run by, not by Tim Draper, but yeah, by the sort of granddaddy of venture capital. They put in a small bridge round towards our Series A. I think they put in 300 grand and our Series A was $3 million. And that was the only money we ever raised. I know it's a long time ago. Were there any lessons you learned from those early investors in Lake Exchange, either immediately or that later, looking back, helped you as you entered your investing life? Yeah, I think I would say I learned a lot from Mike Moritz. Mike Moritz led the Series A investment in us. And he actually loved our company so much that he would come by the office multiple times a week, which was insane. You know, no VC does that anymore these days. I guess in terms of the investment side, I was impressed by the speed and decisiveness of the investment decision. Granted, he had a little bit of extra information because he knew that Yahoo had just tried to acquire us and he was on the board of Yahoo. And so he had visited us to evaluate us on behalf of Yahoo. And I think the things he was most impressed by were subtle clues, not the actual business. So for example, he arrived to meet with us at, I think, 8 AM, and myself and one of the other co-founders were sleeping under our desks when he arrived. So literally, I remember someone shaking me and me opening my eyes, and they were like, someone's here to see you, and it was Mike Moritz. And I think that was probably the single most important factor in the whole thing. He was like, okay, these guys are legit. But then after we declined the Yahoo acquisition, we got a one-liner email from Mike Moritz. Is that because you met me? Could be, yeah. We had a one-liner email from Mike Moritz saying, let's talk. I mean, it was two words. And so we went and visited him at Sequoia, and he basically, it was a very short meeting, and he just said, we are going to invest in you. It was something very confident. We've, we are going to invest in you. It was something very, like, confident. We've decided we're going to invest in you. What we value more than anything is speed. And every minute, every hour, every day that you put distance between you and your competition counts. And so we're going to evaluate you by how quickly you're going to be able to accept our investment. you're going to be able to accept our investments. And we... This, by the way, is what a Y Combinator, we call a ninja technique. Founders have... There's ninja founders who can do this to investors, and there's ninja investors who can do this to founders. Not necessarily recommended unless you're very sure you're a ninja. If you have questions about whether you're a ninja, you're not. It's probably fair. So we at the time had met with five or six other VCs. I think we actually had an offer from another VC that was not one that we were planning on taking. But we left the conference, or yeah, we left the meeting room. We walked down the stairs. We huddled outside the office, and then went right back up and said, okay, we're doing it. Yes, please, Mr. Moritz, may we take your money. Yeah, so you've heard, you are starting to hear themes here. There's a fair amount of repetition, and I consider this to be a very positive thing because these are things to pay attention to, and speed, right? How quickly do things happen? How quickly do they learn? How quickly do founders absorb? How quickly do they take action? How quickly do they build things, hire the right people? Those are sorts of things to pay attention to. Some of them are subtle. Do they sleep under their desks? Some of them are subtle. Do they sleep under their desks? Some of them aren't. Investing's hard, right? I would say it's not for the indecisive. I'd say the common thread between several of these different little anecdotes that's just occurring to me is my decision to join Link Exchange was, you know, within hours I changed my career to join this startup. It wasn't because I'm an impulsive person, it was because I had You knew. But also because I had spent a year of preparation of evaluating business ideas, so when I saw this one I knew it was it. It wasn't the first time I had thought about starting a startup or joining a startup. And presumably, same thing for Moritz. He didn't need to spend a lot of time evaluating us. He, on a very intuitive level, felt like these are the right people to back. And likewise for us, by the time we met him, we had had maybe three or four other VC meetings. When you have a strong intuitive feeling, you should basically go with it this this industry is not very sympathetic to people who hem and haw and take a long time to make decisions so you will find and you've heard this this is there's there's a there's a there's a nugget of incredibly important truth in this conversation we just had and that and it's tied to what other people have said when you begin angel investing, and I know many of you have already done angel investments, everything will seem good and it will be really hard to make your decisions. But if you can't make decisions quickly, your chance of being a very successful angel investor are pretty small. So you need to do enough of it so that you start to be able to, you know, you heard Paul say it, do or do not, and do or do not rapidly. So this is the task in front of you, is to get to the point where you can and be comfortable, like you're playing poker, with shoving all in when you know there's a pretty good chance that that they're holding the nuts or in this case the they're they're holding nothing at all and that and when you shove all in it goes away but you have to create the ability to be decisive um you invest a lot with your brother um how does that work? You know, most angels end up being on their own. Sometimes people team up. Andrea has teamed up with Pietro. How does it work with Hadi? How do you guys make your decisions? Well, yeah, so I have a twin brother, Hadi, and we have very similar backgrounds. So besides being genetically identical, we both studied computer science. We both went to the same University After college he joined Microsoft. I joined Oracle. I had my own startup and I sold it to Microsoft He then had his own startup. He sold his startup also to Microsoft. So we basically are our careers kind of intertwined When it started coming to angel investing, I think we have some minute differences. I would probably say I'm a little bit more risk-taking and he's a little bit more guarded and thoughtful. But I would generally say what's sort of applicable to everyone is that angel investing is better when you have someone else to essentially to double check you or to keep you honest because it's, I'd say it's a lot like falling in love. When, if you fall in love with a person, you see only their positive traits, your brain, I think human, the human brain is literally designed to ignore negatives about something that you've fallen in love with. And so, you know, just like sometimes if you have a friend who's in love with the wrong person, you have to tell them there's real problems with this person that you can't see, but trust me, I see them. I think that also applies with investing in a company, that if you fall in love with a company, you sometimes are unable to see obvious negative signals. And if a second person who, you know, who is not in love sees them and you trust them as a, you know, as a, you know, as an equal and as an advisor, then you're more likely to make smart decisions. Does that slow you guys down where you have to like check each other instead of being able to say I'm in? Or can you do both independently sometimes just say, yeah, we're in and then you sell it yeah there's been occasions where I've committed on behalf of both of us without even asking him but those are those are rare and even those are ones where I mean usually they have to do with a person that we had already agreed that we would give a blank check to so there's entrepreneurs in the past where we've literally said anything that this person starts, we would back. And the person says, I'm starting something and I'll take a meeting and I say, okay, we're in without having to call Hadi. But I would say that's not the situation I was just describing. I think in general, it is good to decide quickly but I think having to do that basic checking with your partner is not that's not a big enough slowdown as long as the discussion can be fast so you don't usually have to decide on the spot and we shouldn't it shouldn't be interpreted that we're making that claim you need need to be decisive, and you need to decide with alacrity. That will often mean, you know, within days. But weeks is too long. Weeks means you're going to miss out on the deal. So the way I interpret this, and Ali can correct me if I've got it wrong, is they talk that night after they've met with the company and decide the next day not, well, let's sit on it for a little while and see how it percolates because it's not going to happen. That's about right. I mean, the other thing I'd say is if you're taking weeks to decide, that basically means you've said no, but in a kind of douchey way where you haven't told them no and all you're doing is hurting your reputation because you'll get a reputation for someone who kind of instead of rejecting people just kind of whatever the term is, ghosts them. So, you know, I think you should do diligence. So it's just a question of if you see something you're excited about, get on top of it quickly. So, you know, the type of things when I say the word diligence, it actually usually means reference checks on the people. Because personally, I'm fiercely, intensely focused on the caliber of people. So I'll email Hadi, not that night, usually that hour, and say, hey, I just saw this company. I'm really excited about it. Blah, blah, blah. Here are the reasons I'm excited. Here are the things about the people. Here's the negatives. Sometimes he'll say, this is terrible and he'll essentially kill the interest. But sometimes he'll say, yeah, it is great. Who do we know who can do a reference check? I know somebody from this place that would know this person. And reference checks are usually more effective if they're done sort of stealthily, meaning find someone you know who knows them. Yeah, the reference checks that somebody provides are obviously going to be positive. They're going to be their friends or their best relationships. And so those don't really give much signal. But finding someone who was a previous manager, I'd say that's the sort of worthwhile time to spend before making a decision. Great. So I want to give the people who've managed to hang out in our great lateness here the chance to ask some questions and if we have some from online. But before then, I have a combined question. You've made a whole bunch of incredible investments in incredible companies. And I'd like to maybe if you can sort of give a little color on that and especially tie that to your new venture with NEO. Because I think you're thinking about those. I think NEO is almost a result of the process of figuring out how you made all these great investments. That's the way I interpret it anyway. So maybe you can just speak briefly to those two things. Sure, yeah. I'd say the hallmark or the sort of common theme in my investing together with my brother has been a strong connection with young engineers, as young as university, and a very strong focus on evaluating engineers. Most people don't realize the most successful companies in America were all founded by computer scientists and not just the tech companies But also companies like Netflix, which is really an entertainment company and started out mailing DVDs We hasty started a company look it up called pure software Which was an incredible company and it was an it was a software idea that he had yeah brilliant And Jeff Bezos is a computer scientist and obviously Bill Gates and so on. So we really began focusing on people and evaluating companies as well as then after investing in the company helping them with recruiting people. So our foremost successful investments are two were early stage and two were later stage. I'd say the hallmark of the later stage ones is helping them with recruiting more so than discovering them. But basically they're Facebook, Dropbox, Airbnb, and Uber. That's a good four. Yeah, it's a good four. But the early Facebook, I clearly remember Hadi coming back from this meeting saying, I just met this company, they're working in a house, but this young guy reminds me more of Bill Gates than anyone I've ever met in my life. And he had this intensity and ambition to him, but with a level of belief and confidence that he was actually going to accomplish these things. And it was a very chaotic company at the time. It was like nine people. But we decided to get involved. And then we started pushing them to hire younger people than themselves, which is not what anyone else was telling them. Their average age was 21 or something. And we convinced them to bring on a 19-year-old intern. And I remember interviewing Stanford students for Facebook and helping refer people to join early Facebook. And that process of interviewing students led us to discover Dropbox. So there was a MIT student named McInday who my brother was my brother interviewed him and sent him to Facebook but also asked him who are the smartest kids in your class at MIT and that's how we met Arash Ferdowsi who was still enrolled at MIT and was developing Dropbox. We then had Drew and Arash fly out to the West Coast and part of our due diligence process had become by this point was to actually give coding tests to founders. So we gave Drew and Arash technical interviews to see how well they can program and based on McInday's referral and the technical interview, we decided these two guys are the right guys to back and it was a crowded space Dropbox was not the first with its idea it was I actually had several other companies that were earlier than it and then for the next several years after that we helped Dropbox recruit people we still help Dropbox recruit people and this is ten years ago so helping helping companies recruit is the biggest way I've added value as an angel. And what ties it all together, though, is a focus really on young, great engineers. So Neo, my new company, is a community for awesome young engineers. It's focused on finding the top 10 or 20 most promising undergraduate computer science students. And so we identify awesome young engineers, include them most promising undergraduate computer science students. And so we identify awesome young engineers, include them in a diverse community of tech veterans, which includes this guy, and then we invest in startups that they start or that they join. Yeah, watch this space, because I think some really interesting things are likely to come out of Neo. So questions for Ali. The question was, how do you think about piratas in especially like if you get in a great company like Airbnb or Uber? Yeah, if you want the honest answer, it's really, I still am trying to figure out how to do it well. It's kind of a mind fuck because you have put in money at an early stage, maybe a small amount, and now that investment is worth a thousand times more and you're wanting to celebrate it, but you also have the option to put in an enormous amount more money to get a tiny little bit more. And I think it's psychologically very difficult for humans to believe that something that has already grown a lot can still grow a lot more and I've only made maybe two or three Follow-on investments one was Dropbox where I mean this was I can't remember the exact numbers, but it was something like I had invested I mean, this was, I can't remember the exact numbers, but it was something like I had invested with my brother 50 grand, and now just for the follow-on, I think it was several million dollars just to maintain the stake. It was just very difficult to evaluate this. Would I rather be selling or buying? But Dropbox is a very unique company, so we did do that one, and I think there's one or two others, but on the whole, I've generally not done follow-on. Probably would have been better to do it, but I've generally been sort of afraid because of the psychological weakness that I mentioned. Yeah. Any more questions? Yeah, back there. So the question is, to put it succinctly, aren't you guys taking all of our potential deal flow by vacuuming up all of the good startups, good founders, good ideas? So I don't actually know enough about the Thiel Fellows to comment on that one. But my impression is that what YC is, YC generally thrives from having a very symbiotic relationship with angels and having, you know, great relationships with angels. And Neo is brand new, but my aspiration is similarly to have a similar kind of cooperative and collaborative relationship. For NEO, a few things are different. First of all, what I said earlier about follow-on investing is easier when you have a fund and it's set aside a certain amount for follow-on. And so I'm approaching it that way it's different when it's all your own money and it's you know you may not have enough to do the follow-on or so on but the approach I'm taking with neo is aiming to take something between two to three two to four percent ownership in companies and on almost every different round whether it's a seed stage or an a stage or so on, there's usually more to go around. And so in the seed stage rounds, there's very often companies want to have multiple investors. They want to have different angels who bring different values to the company. And so in the ecosystem, I think there's still plenty of room for individual angels. Yeah, thanks for that question. Actually, precisely the opposite is true, if you think about it. What both Neo and YCombinator does is create opportunities for angels to make scads of money and to have very successful portfolios. We only invest at YC $120,000 at seed stage. That leaves lots of opportunity for other angels to invest. And so we're helping create the companies that you all should invest in. That's why we're doing this, by the way. As I said, I think it's great for the overall ecosystem, YC or not. Some neocompanies may well be YC and some not. If there's more great angel investors, it's great for them. But it's self-serving too because we want you guys to invest in Y Combinator companies. We want you guys to be massively successful because that means those Y Combinator companies are massively successful. So I don't think there's any such thing as vacuuming up innovation. We're hopefully, hopefully that's our goal is to incent more innovation. Yes. Can I just say, as someone who's been an angel investor now for 20 years, there are way more companies being started, thanks largely to YCC than there were before. And so yeah, so even if there was any vacuuming up going on, it's out of a much larger base. Plus having a place to know where to find those companies. So even if there were 150 companies, if they were all spread around in different places and you didn't know who was doing what, just having the opportunities in a way that everyone can see them creates a lot of value. Awesome. Yeah. Do you have an opinion or experience with secondary markets? So the question is, do you have any opinion or experience on secondary markets? I think what you mean is secondary sales where an early employee or former founder is selling some of their individual shares. I do have some experience with this. Probably wouldn't say that I have a lot of experience with it. I have experience selling my own shares as an early investor at various points, companies that I've invested in, I've sold some or held some and so on. I don't think that I've... I'm trying to remember if I've ever bought shares from someone other than the company directly. If I have, it's failing my memory, but it's certainly not frequent enough to be a practice for me. That being said, I think it is actually probably a good investing opportunity, and I have been thinking about dynamics that make sense for that, because there are frequently early-stage employees who have left or are about to leave, and they want to cash out some of their stock, But they're frequently early-stage employees who have left or are about to leave, and they want to cash out some of their stock, and there's an opportunity for them to get money and for an investor to get that stock. So I'd say it is a good opportunity. I just don't have that much experience in it. I think it's real. I think there was sort of a burgeoning number of those opportunities and then a bunch of companies clamped down to control how much of their stock was, you know, because companies want to control who owns their stock and they lose control when that happens, but I do think that is still an opportunity. Okay, a couple more questions. Yeah. that you need to help those companies recruit and get them to do good needs and to get everybody to kind of count that. You certainly are not going to have to do what tactics you need to do and the pool of people that you can help bring in. So the question was, what are some of the tactics you've used to sort of expand the pool of talent as you help companies recruit to expand the pool of talent as you help companies recruit to expand the pool of talent available to those companies? So, you know, this has been an evolving and growing practice that I would say has defined my career, frankly, of being in touch with and building a network of great engineers. I think everybody has the ability to cultivate a network simply by being diligent about staying in touch with people that they've encountered at various points. So for me, I mentioned McInday, that's a guy who was a senior at MIT in 2006. I'm still in touch with him even though after he left Facebook four years later, he joined a different company that I was an investor in. And after he left that company, he joined a different company that I was an investor in. And that's because my brother and I stayed in touch with him. And so simply keeping track of who are the exceptional people that you've encountered in your life and maintaining connections with them and also asking them for introductions. So, you know, McInday is the one who introduced us to Drew. How do you start that process is a little trickier. And frankly, you know, when I was starting NEO, part of the conceit was to try to find top engineers in universities across the country. I was very insecure about how the heck would I get started with that because I might have had a few connections at a few universities, but it's a big country and there's a lot of places where there are great people and I wasn't sure how to start. It's something I think I've done a great job of so far, but there's still a lot to do. Main advice I'd say is not to be intimidated and just you know at least start trying somehow the tactic I used for NEO was I actually surveyed all the startups that I had relationships with and I asked them to tell me who the best engineers that they had in their internship programs were so you know so essentially that was the top of my funnel and I started from that. Okay, if there's one more question. Okay, way back there, thanks. I'm sorry, I didn't get that. . Is that a strategy about, did you ask about a strategy around exiting? He said have you formed a strategy around exiting your positions? I think it would be probably inflating it to say that it's a well-formed strategy. I think everything is on a case-by-case basis. You know, generally speaking, there's not a lot of liquidity. So let's say if you make it an investment and then you realize that it was a terrible investment, it's very hard to sell it in the private market because you have to find a friend willing to buy it from you and you have to not tell them that you think it's a bad investment. You know, some friend, right? Exactly. And if you do that too often, you know, you won't have a lot of friends anyway. So and you can ask the company to help it happen, but they don't want that. You know, they don don't want it to have a reputation out there that all these other early investors are trying to sell their stock at any price or whatever. So on the flip side is when there's a company that's doing well, which is a little bit, there's more of a market. And there's a lot of people who want to buy. You're again, I mean, I think it's like a classic sort of psychological challenge of is it better to sell or to hold? And in my personal experience, I've generally made the wrong decision every time. Every time I sold it, I should have held it, and every time I've held it, I should have sold it. So I'm not really one to give advice on this. The selling side is my Achilles heel, I think. So I'm just going to leave you now with the thought that, you know, first, we shouldn't feel too bad about the fact that he sold too soon. And in fact, that has been a line that's been attributed to various fantastic investors throughout history. You know, what's the secret of your success? I always sold too soon. So sell too soon. And thank you all very much for staying so much later than we intended. And how about a round of applause for Ali. And thank you so much for coming. Thanks. you