 All right, guys, welcome to the podcast. Thanks, Greg. How's it going? Great. Good. Amy, you are a founder coach. I think a lot of people don't know what coaching actually is. So maybe you could explain it. Yeah, that's actually a great question, because what coaching is depends a lot on who the coach is and what their expertise is and what their experience has been. So coaching in its most simple term is a supportive relationship. And it's a supportive relationship that helps people, usually founders or execs, like managers, resolve problems that they're experiencing in their life. So I think some people might be familiar with therapy and maybe have even done it before. How would you differentiate it from coaching? Therapy is a relationship that uses that relationship to affect change, whereas coaching is using the coach's own life experience to affect change. They're both really similar. Coaches often use their relationship with the client as information to help them understand the client in order to better serve their needs. But therapy is almost all that. It's all about the client, the client's relationships, the client's marriage, friendships, family, all that stuff. Whereas coaching is the client and their work and their eating habits and this, that, or the other. That's not all the relationship. Another big difference actually is the credentialing process. So in therapy, for example, I had to go to grad school. I had to get a master's degree and then have 3,000 supervised hours before even being able to apply to take the licensing exam. So that's five years of my life. Whereas with coaching, one day I decided I'm going to be a coach. And that's really the difference. And you can imagine the different types of people, for example, that would opt into one career path versus the other. Okay. And so we've kind of outlined a few of the most common problems startups have here. And so I think what could be most helpful to people is we're just going to talk about the problems and then we can outline the symptoms, talk about a couple examples and just go from there. Okay, cool. So what is the most common problem you see startups having? The most common problem I think that I see my clients have is an inability to have difficult conversations because their emotions get in the way and or an inability to even pinpoint the actual problem that they're experiencing. Often the real problem that is many levels below what they're experiencing as they go about their day. Okay. And so we've broken a few of those out. So we've called them roles and responsibilities, discussing equity, talking about founder performance, and the last one is talking about runway, how much you have left in the bank. So maybe, I mean, maybe even Michael, you could give an example of one of these from any of the things you've worked on. Sure, yeah. So in the early days of Justin.TV and Twitch, roles and responsibilities was something that we did a very bad job at. And one of the very clear ways that I know we did a bad job is that every single one of us started another company and did a better job at it. And so we did a bad job and we realized it and we fixed it. So very specifically, we had four co-founders. We were equal co-founders. And while we each sort of knew what we were supposed to do, it wasn't extremely explicit who was responsible for what. It wasn't extremely explicit who was responsible for product. It wasn't extremely explicit for who was responsible for... Well, actually, now that I think about it, it wasn't extremely explicit who was responsible for product. And maybe that was actually the the core issue because it was explicit who was responsible for the hardware. That was Kyle. It was explicit who was doing the software. That was Emmett. It was Justin's show, so he was responsible for filming. And, you know, I think it was explicit for me that I was responsible for fundraising and customer support and press and so on and so forth. But who was responsible for the product was actually unclear. And I know that because we fought about it all the time. And we changed our minds all the time. So this is interesting. So this is kind of only one degree of separation, right? So you were just like bickering about product in particular? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And it came across in these absurd ways. Justin and I had a three-day debate about what the background color of the website would be. Justin wanted black and I wanted wood grain. And our solution, instead of actually deciding who should head product, was to allow the user to select different background colors for their product. Beautiful. Between black and wood grain. There are some other studies. Probably not the best solution. Yeah. And that's exactly like what a coach would help with because they have laser vision. They can see past all the layers of criticism and arguing and stuff. And they would quickly, I would guess within an hour, probably have been able to see that that was the actual problem, which would have saved you how much time? I mean, we didn't figure it out for six years. And you didn't even figure out until like this one moment that it was not. That it was actually just product, yeah. It wasn't roles and responsibilities. It was just product, totally. But this is tricky, though, too, because so many things in startups end in life are gray areas and so you may not have actually known maybe black would be better maybe a wood grain would be better the most important thing is didn't matter right like it wasn't a top three most important thing right for our business so like when you're arguing about something that's not a top three thing there's probably there's a problem right and would you say that that that you were able to argue about that because you didn't have a clear goal in mind i think it was because i cared weirdly you know like i was the non-technical founder and so there were few things to care about early days pre-launch and like this was something that i could think about you know i couldn't think about how to build our first chat system our first video camera but i could think about this and like what we should have decided is that no justin's going to think about this and michael you're going to think about these other things and what's interesting when i think back is in areas where the responsibility was extremely clear We actually did a good job right Kyle's responsible to camera people to camera Emmett both the website Justin had a show Like I don't I actually did do tons of customer support. I actually organized all this press I actually organized all these sponsorships and in those areas where there was no debate about responsibility Like we excelled like we did better And in those areas where there was no debate about responsibility, like we excelled, like we did better than expected. And in areas where there was debate, strangely, like we got to the right solution. And the screwy thing is we didn't even debate the important product things, right? The most important product thing about Justin.TV and Twitch is videos on the left and chats on the right. Day one, videos on the left, chats on the right. Today on the right day one videos on the left chats on the right today videos on the left chats on the right like we weren't even debating that we were like debating stupid other well people call this bike shedding right yeah we're choosing what color to paint the bike shed yes it's like that's the big debate rather than building it um so so amy if you were michael's coach in this situation how would you go about walking through like putting a stake in the ground and saying like hey i'm michael i'm gonna run product or maybe not or not yeah that's sort of something that's on my mind as i'm listening to you and i'm thinking through a couple sessions i've had this week where um you were a team of four founders you each had your kind of your own world although of course they overlapped because it was early days, but you also had your own skill sets as individuals and humans. Yes. Hopefully those align with your, with what your responsibilities. However, I'm just kind of like imagining you back in the day, Michael, you were, you owned what, like external partnerships, sales? Yeah, it was, it was, it was basically business stuff. Business, business stuff. Yes. And you have, I think probably the personality to match that. I did. Yeah, exactly. And awkwardly, I'd never built product before ever. Interesting. So I had no skill set. For sure. Of course. But back in that day, like your skill set and stuff maybe wasn't needed as much. Yes. And so like there's almost this rotating set of gears and wheels where you had all this capacity, you had the bandwidth to worry about everything. And so instead of being able to recognize that in the moment and put your skills to use immediately, right, because you're not really needed until all the hardware and everything like gets into place where you can sell it or whatever. Like, I forget your question, Craig, but as your coach, I would have been able to recognize that and been like, what is the most impactful thing that you with your skill set and your particular piece of the pie can, like, how can you impact the bottom line right now today? Knowing that right now, yeah, what you want to do isn't important and that's fine and that's good. Like not all cylinders need to be firing at all moments. It's funny that I think that I certainly didn't realize that in the first go around. think that I certainly didn't realize that in the first go around and I remember in social cam my second startup there were moments where I literally was like the most important thing I can do is be here but not talk like but shut the fuck up right because it's like we had decided what we're building this week everyone knew what they were supposed to do yeah and like the only thing I could do in a conversation with other people was either waste their time or change the plan yeah and it was like just shut up and like i ended up i kind of realized it's just tv but i ended up printing out this thing it was like good leadership doesn't require being disruptive and it was like something i always kept in the back of my mind it's like i don't need to disrupt like at some point you just need to sit there and build something and having someone in your ear is not really helpful for that and i'm curious how did you realize that um you know strangely in the second company our authority roles were different right so in the first company our authority roles were different, right? So in the first company, our authority roles were so weird. It was like Justin and I had done a startup before, but they weren't really businessy. And like Kyle was extremely technical, but he was doing this like hardware thing that none of us had expertise in. And so it was all, there was this weirdness, right? With SocialCam, even though we all had equal equity, the second time, like I had been the CEO before and they were my, they'd been employees. And so I think each of us were more, there was already kind of a natural hierarchy. And I think that it was easier for me to give things up because I didn't feel like I was giving up power or authority. I felt like I was delegating. Whereas like in the early days, it was like, it was almost like there were four CEOs. It does kind of sound like it was a free for all. Yeah. For like teams, because I know this is also a common thing where you did, you did have equal equity. You know, you did have equal-ish sounding pie pieces. Yeah. In a perfect world, who would have been able to make the decision and delegate or tell you, Michael, like, stay in your lane or whatever? You know, like, does it just— Well, I think it's interesting, right? I think the story of JustTV Twitch is kind of funny because Justin started as CEO. And so I think there was probably a time in the early days where you would argue it was his responsibility. Post-launch, we needed to start fundraising. We switched. I did this extremely poorly but we switched and i became ceo and i carried us through for the next kind of five years and then when we decided to focus in on gaming that was kind of emma's expertise in his interest so then he became the ceo and so it's like crazy right it's like there's three embedded ceos right and then kyle goes and starts cruise he is is a CEO too so like like um so I think that at various times it was various people's responsibilities I think by the time he came to Emmett we were just older and we had seen dysfunctions like man if you see dysfunction for long enough and you're reasonably smart you're gonna be like oh okay like dysfunction's not good we should fix that yeah but in the early days we were just like we don't know we never worked in companies we don't know what good looks like right plus a little bit less ego at the time yeah well three out of four people went to yale so that also like i wouldn't advise that um you mentioned equity equity is another interesting one so anyway how does that come out in what are the symptoms of maybe an uneven or just like a perceived uneven equity split equity is an interesting one in my experience the way it comes out is the person who feels as if they have less equity than they deserve is usually the one who calls me they call me usually at the point at which this conversation is boiled over such that they feel so much resentment towards the person who has more than they deserve or whatever, that they don't know anymore if they can even continue on. That's how it comes up in my experience. And as you can imagine, when you feel resentment, that causes so many other downstream effects. Like you no longer respect the person, you are, when you feel resentment, that causes so many other downstream effects. Like you can't, you no longer respect the person. You are short with them. Everything they do irritates you. It sort of like pervades you every part of your waking and sleeping life. Like you have dreams about this person. You know what I mean? Like deeply want to malign them. And the solution there is just to like have sort of a come to Jesus moment with yourself and ask yourself, like, should we should we renegotiate this? Is it worth it? Can I salvage this relationship? Would this person be open to it? Or and or is there a price at which I will, you know, can I present a different deal at which point I might walk? a different deal, at which point I might walk, like am I comfortable walking? And or an exploration of the past reasons why it was okay for this person to even find themselves in the situation at hand. And that actually, to me, is the more interesting, like that exploration is more interesting to me as a coach. Usually the person from the very beginning felt as if something wasn't quite right. Like when stuff you do. And didn't say it. Yeah. And didn't say anything. And it's like, and so like, why? Why did you like silence yourself? What was it about you that didn't allow that like you to negotiate for your own self? What was what was it about you that disallowed you from seeing your own value? And those are patterns that often not only affect the relationship with the co-founder, but many, many other relationships in that person's life. So it's funny because we talked to the opposite person. So you talk to the person who feels like they didn't get enough. I talked to the CEO who's usually in the role of distributing. And this was an area where Justin was amazing from day one and kind of set a precedent. I remember that, you know, in Justin TV, when he and I would ask me to join up, and I was like, hey, I will, but I want to feel like an equal partner. And he was like, great, you're an equal partner. And I remember being like, oh, okay like and i remember like that moment i felt like i am all in yeah right and we were doing an online reality tv show there was no reasonable reason to be all in but i was like well if i'm an equal partner i'm all in you know and it was interesting because when kyle started he had only 10 equity because he had started as like this like quasi employee quasi contractor kind of thing and we were trying to like convince him to join up and there was a point i think three or four months in where kyle was like um i'd like to be an equal co-founder and i remember thinking to myself okay what's my model for whether you should be and it was like well justin established it so i remember thinking like immediately my first reaction was not you negotiated this you should be. And it was like, well, Justin established it. So I remember thinking like immediately my first reaction was not, you negotiated this, you should stick to what you negotiated or da da da. My first reaction was like, well, what Emmett and Justin think? Like, it's like, they're cool. I'm cool. Right. You know, it was very much like open to that conversation. And I think a lot of times when I talk to CEOs now, you know, the reason why I like to default to equal is it's kind of cheats. It kind of just gets rid of this conversation. Right. But this is not a best fit for all circumstances. But when I talk to CEOs now, the number one thing that they say to me is, well, we negotiated it. And it's like so funny because I'm like, look, as a CEO, you're thinking about your co-founder's motivation today, but also five years from now. And they might not be thinking about that. And so it's not a fair negotiation. Like victory is not you negotiate it. Victory is like they work really hard the whole time. You can't let them negotiate a deal for themselves that is not gonna make them work really hard. And so it's so funny, I have to keep being like, hey look, this isn't some business transaction. This is, you know, when your company gets sold, the company acquires you basically puts this massive retention, you know, if you do well, puts a big retention bonus that sits out there. It's called golden handcuffs. And it's to keep you there. And I often tell CEOs, equity is golden handcuffs. Equity is what keeps people there. It's not a reward. It's like, it's a, it's a, it's bondage in a weird way. And so like, do you really want this person to be around? Well, if you don't, then why are they your co-founder? If you do, you should probably give them a lot of equity. It's so interesting that you say that too, because often, again, it's so funny. I'm talking to the opposite person, like the person that feels as if they're being devalued. And it's interesting because I always find I have to tell them how their behavior must be perceived by the CEO, because this person has been sitting on this thing for years sometimes. And it's like coming out in all these random, passive, aggressive, critical ways. The CEO can't imagine because it's like, we already decided on this, right? The CEO often doesn't even know where it's coming from at all. And they're like, why is this person being crazy and unreasonable and like horrible to me? And why have they been for years? Like, they just sort of are often blindsided because in their mind it's been negotiated yeah and it's so interesting that that again like the the people that i'm talking to they're so they're so like filled with resentment they can't possibly imagine what's in that other person's mind yes and so like again it just it it pervades their experience um i had something else to say but i forgot it well it's weird too is that i think that in situations where the equity um should be unequal like it's honestly situations where the people with lesser equity are comfortable with that for a long period of time like that is a situation right where you know sometimes you have companies where different founders are bringing different things to the table and so you know you know, one founder, you know, with Justin TV, it was like four founders who basically done nothing. Right. Like it didn't feel like equal. Equal equity felt like it made sense. Right. In a situation where like there's a massive power imbalance and someone is bringing like a lot more to the table than someone else. Right. Like you can kind of make a case. But the reason why you know there's agreement on that is because the person doesn't blow up, like the person with less equity doesn't get pissed two years from now. And like if that wasn't correctly done. Then they will. Yeah. Yeah. So let's say you are in a situation where you might be getting less equity. Do you have like a good model for playing that out in your head? Like in five years, am I okay with that? And like, maybe that's just a simple exercise you can do because you're basically like, ideally you would just avoid this entirely, this conversation, right? Five years down the line. I think ideally it requires either the, either founder needs to step up, right? Like the CEO needs to step up and be honest and be like, Hey, look, I want to make sure regardless of what you think you need now, let's talk about what you was going to make you feel great five or 10 years from now. Let's talk about like, let's imagine we sold this company and I make more money than you. Like, let's really talk about that. Like, is that going to feel comfortable? Is it going to feel comfortable for me to get 10 times more money than you? Is he going to feel comfortable two times? One and a half? Da-da-da-da, right? Or I think on the flip side for that co-founder that's not the CEO to just be very explicit about, hey, these are some of the reasons why I believe you should have more equity. And these are some of the reasons why I believe I should have more. But I feel like it requires one person to step up. requires one person to step up. And I see a lot of situations where neither step up. That's absolutely true. The person with the least amount of equity will never be OK with it. So I am always like, this is always going to be a problem until something changes. And so you might as well bite the bullet and change it one way or another. Or just have the conversation up front. And just have the conversation. The other interesting thing that I'm thinking about as we're talking about this is, again, the reason why some folks sort of enter into this negotiation and then are fine with this, I mean, fine in air quotes, say they're fine with the equity split even when they're not, is because they have such a difficult time speaking to their value and saying, I am worth this because I'm amazing and I have all the experience that you need. I also will just say that like women often have a harder time being able to do that. And so I just want to like make sure that that, again, from a coaching perspective, that conversation, like I don't feel as if I have value, erupts not just in the equity conversation, but in many other instances too, especially, for example, with first-time managers, especially, for example, with managers who are managing really amazing like the C-suite and they're great. Like they don't feel as if they're valid enough to coach the other person, say, I'm holding you accountable. You didn't meet my expectation in this way. So, again, that piece of I don't know if I have enough, I can't see my value. That shows up in so many different ways in my work. But in my mind, if you're the CEO, on this one I think the buck stops with you. Like I think that either person could step up, but I think the CEO's responsibility is to step up. That's very big of you, I love that. I think that's the, I mean, if this is a problem, this it's the ceo's fault yeah like this is kind of core so so many of these things really just boil down to communication right like simpler more transparent communication yes of of your intentions and your feelings yes is there a point where there's too much yes from like yes from a founder from a CEO's perspective, maybe if you're a CEO who's like, and I'm funk one day, maybe I shouldn't be communicating today, right? I don't know. What are you thinking? I mean, my first reaction was like, yes, of course. Too much of anything is not good. Everything needs to be in balance. I think in general, though, people hesitate to communicate about feelings and about difficult topics. And in that world, it's never a bad idea to over communicate because you can like imagine it as exercise. You need to build muscles. You need to communicate and deliver feedback to everybody in a different way based off of how they receive it, their own life experiences and how they're feeling in that day. And so as especially when you're first starting out, like over-communicate the feedback, over-communicate the difficult messages, give each other feedback on how the feedback is going, you know, like, but develop like a healthy amount of hygiene there. But like, yeah, when you're arguing, when the communication isn't productive and when it's not even coming from a good place, too much of that is certainly not good. Well, I think you just made such an amazing point. In general, I don't encounter companies that are over-communicating. That is very rare. Absolutely. But I do encounter situations, and I'm thinking back to my personal experience, where it's non-productive communication. Where it's like, we're having a fight. We know we're having a fight. It's not going to solve anything. Just stop fighting. go don't keep on having the fight and i definitely feel like when i was younger i somehow thought there was value in winning the fight and i didn't realize that like maybe every minute after 20 minutes where you're fighting you're just reducing the value of your company like you're just hurting everything and so it's just like i love that yeah you can't you can't not fight at all but it's just like there is a diminishing return for your for your core goals yeah i know one team who has a limit of every time they notice they're fighting they set a timer for two minutes and then they literally stop the conversation and like take a walk around the block and don't revisit it until the next day and i hated that because I always had, I always worked things out through talking. Like I couldn't, I couldn't work things out only in my head. I had to kind of have a competitive thing and competitive's not the right word but it's kind of true. And I wouldn't catch feelings about it. Yeah. Like I like fighting. Argu. Like I like fighting, arguing. I like arguing. But it's not productive in many. And if the other person isn't on that same wavelength, you're not helping. Yeah, that's kind of what I was thinking. It's good and totally fine. Like you need to talk things through. And the more different opinions that come at you, the better the output, like the better the final idea. But if I'm coming from a culture or a family in which like strong opinions terrify me and I feel overwhelmed because any conflict makes me feel like I'm sweaty just thinking about you, Michael, and your style, for example, like that won't work for me. And again, like your style isn't bad and my style isn't bad. They both have pros and cons. And again, it's just a matter of like knowing that and being able to talk about it and being like, and yeah, having conversations about it so you can find a middle ground that works for everybody. Yeah. And it's hard to, it's funny is that it's, if I were smarter back in the day, I think I would have created no consequence arguing time. Like, like I would have separated out thinking through things out loud from decision making. And so I, and so it never would have felt like those thinking throughout loud moments had much consequence. Right. Cause like when I'm just working through my stuff, it shouldn't be a consequential conversation. I might change my mind. I'm the kind of person that's like, I strongly felt but very loosely held opinions. And so I think later on I kind of learned how to just separate decision making from conversation and i think knowing you michael the one thing that you always do really well is you in the whatever argumentative conversations just in your style you always are only talking about the idea and so many founding teams especially when they get into patterns of like bad communication hygiene are talking about the other person. And that's like, that's the moment where it's like, okay, I'm going to pause you right now because I know what you're saying isn't being helpful, but I know what you're trying to say. What you're trying to say is that person beat like co-founder when you're, when you do this with this product, it, my impact of the product is that or whatever. Yeah. Like redirect the conversation to the actual task and not the person. I really like that. Yes. Because there's some situations where you're arguing because what you're really saying is like, you're not doing your job. Totally. I've had one of those conversations recently and I know it was painful for the other person. And I know I just didn't have the balls to say, I don't think you're doing your job. So I had this really awkward like where i tried to almost make it so that they would come to that conclusion themselves which is really stupid just avoidance man it's really dangerous well but that's the next thing we wanted to talk about so that's performance right yeah there you go uh so um amazing yeah so symptoms of feeling that someone's underperforming. Yes, I have been thinking about this, actually. So I have come to the conclusion that in my clients who have performance issues of one kind or another, there's actually usually two types of performance problems. One is a real performance problem where their co-founder actually isn't meeting goals and not like meeting the deadline maybe not showing up to work as frequently like just sort of like they're bowing out that is a real problem um and so that's one bucket and then the other bucket are perceived problems of performance where again like same thing like one person doesn't think that the person is meeting expectation you know and like and but it's it's all imagined and in the first category the real performance problems like that is solved with uh having a conversation being like hey like i noticed that you're not meeting actual expectation you know what's up with that that almost always actually is about burnout it's not about the person's performance it's about about their losing hope, losing motivation. When it's a perceived problem, that is when things get a little bit trickier because that means that goals haven't been decided. Often roles and responsibilities aren't clear. There hasn't been agreement that the expectations and goals are even worth pursuing. And usually like, so again, so performance really wide category of issues. In my mind, they're one of two, real or perceived. Roles and responsibilities so often are the core of this. Like so often, like if it's not roles and responsibilities, someone should be fired. Like because like- Nuclear options. In an early stage startup, if someone can't actually do the work, it's kind of like you kind of need to get the work done. But it's so rare that someone can't do the work. It's extremely rare. So many founders interact with this, not they can't do the work. It's like like we don't know what we're doing yeah what's the goal did we write it down totally whose job is it to do this oh we never really talked about in what timeline yeah exactly oh we never really wrote like oh like you want to build this feature did you write a spec no do you even agree what the feature should do no right so it's like well how would you expect someone to build the magical thing in your head? Totally. And so much of that's roles and responsibilities. And the other thing that I think about with performance that I think is extremely important for CEOs is your job is to manage motivation. I think a lot of times people talk about 10x engineers. And it's almost as if there's this idea that people's DNA is different. And that's the only important factor in their output. And like I would argue that even more important than their DNA and like how raw smart they are is how motivated they are. And like oftentimes people don't talk about like you can't change the DNA, but you certainly can change the motivation. And like what I've seen, you know, even here in YC is that like, it's amazing what work people will do when they feel good about their workplace. And it's like, it's just like, it's that simple. Like they'll blow you away. They'll do things that you didn't even expect them to do. They'll do things that are even more impressive than you could have hoped for. If you've set up an environment where like people want to buy in. And if you set up an environment where like people want to buy in and if you set up a environment where they don't like they don't even do the simple things and so like i've seen far more 10x difference based on motivation than i have based on like dna and i've worked with some amazing engineers don't get me wrong and like they're magical but man like you put a magical person and they're highly motivated crazy amazing I think you bring up another interesting topic, which is how especially early stage CEOs mostly can keep their team motivated even during the trough of sorrow. Because in my mind, it is a skill. There's very few founders who come out of the womb with that charisma and the vision setting and the power. Really hard. And it is really hard. And do you have any, I don't know, I guess, setting and the power you know and it is really hard and and do you have any i don't know i guess i wasn't good at it i mean it's it's interesting advising companies on it because i just am brutally honest like i'm just like it's gonna suck yeah like i don't want to it's not rosy like the fact that we even name the trough of sorrows at yc is like just trying to be brutally honest right it's like half of not feeling bad is expecting it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And like we've started telling people, you know, oh, when it's not working, it sucks. And then I've just started being like, and when it's working, it sucks too. Because like I just don't, like I just hate having the conversation with the founders. Like it's taking off and i i just i feel like every day i'm getting punched in the face i'm like oh that's that's sorry oh we didn't tell you that like yeah that's that's also yeah you'll always feel punched in the face and dalton says something interesting which is which i i've kind of adopted um as well which is that like you have to enjoy the work right because the emotions are always going to be there it's always going to hard. So you better like what you're doing. Because if you're succeeding, you feel like crap. If you're failing, you feel like crap. So like you're not going to stick with it if you don't enjoy what you're doing or at least the people you're working with. I've noticed there has to be like some tie. It doesn't have to be that you love the product. to be something inherent that's not like we're gonna make a lot of money because most people aren't gonna make any money. Something inherent in the work that you like. Even if that thing changes. Like this week I love the team. This week I feel more aligned with the product and that's what's getting me out of bed. Even if it changes, but it's gotta be something anchoring you to the work. Regardless of whether you're succeeding or not. Yeah, well I think it just spirals because if you don't like if you can't add a little levity to these conversations you're gonna suffer yeah it's like constant uh all right last one is runway yes so what are the symptoms of not having enough money or feeling like you don't have enough money left that's an interesting question for some reason where my so this one like as a coach i don't get a lot of folks whose runway is less than four or five months because coaching is effing expensive, you know. And so like right out of the bat, it's unfortunate, actually, it's a problem in therapy, too, where the people who have the most need are those who can't afford the solution. And I have not yet been able to solve that problem somewhere in my career. I hope i will um but weirdly where my brain went was in fact the the founders who whose companies nearly died like were two one to two months away from dying and they like white knuckled their company out from the grave in order to like live for another year or two and yet still live every day with that like fear baked into every cell of their being. So and so it's sort of like runway for me, the clients that I see and that I speak with most are those who are so tired of living in fear and yet who's like systems have not yet awakened to the idea that they can have a different life and and choose, like make options not from that stance of fear, but rather from the stance of, oh, I can do this. I can now. Now I have the runway. Now I have the growth. Now I have the team. The world is bright and shiny again, but for some reason I don't believe it yet. Yeah. Yeah, the runway problems I see are a little different. Yeah, it's weird. I probably see three problems I see the problem that's most side correlated with runway is it's going to die and I feel bad and I feel like I've let down my employees and my investors and we kind of have to have a hard conversation with the founder we're like look your job was to try not to succeed like no one in this setup thought this was a hundred percent yeah um the other problem that i see is founders who don't realize that runway's a problem right that's extremely common it's like we have six months left but everything's great like we you know we've got 25 people we don't have product market fair we're burning all the money in the world but everything's great and you're just like dude are you did you is really like it doesn't sound great yeah um and then the other kind of folks i see um i see more of are the people who got their company out of the grave those folks and that was just a tv experience like those folks i more see them being really good like i more see them being like well if we can get through this yeah we can do anything. And like to me, those are the folks who are exciting because like those are the folks where they're now fearless. They now finally feel in control. I think as a founder, you often feel like investors control your fate. Can I raise this round or not? The second that you get your company profitable, I think it's for the first time you feel like a business owner. profitable you for i think it's for the first time you feel like a business owner like my decisions affect the success of my company um as opposed to like well in the end of the day if i don't convince this dude with a bunch of money we don't succeed and like to me that was amazing i i actually don't think we clearly and strategically thought about our business for six years because we were constantly changing fundraising i think the second we got profitable we were like it was like clear minded and we're like okay what's the opportunity here? And it's not a coincidence that like, Social Cam and Twitch both happened after we got broke even. Like before that it was just. So that's where I see that. Like there's so many things I'm thinking about. What you just said, one of them is yes, like the founders who can dig their company out of the grave, like absolutely the best and are awesome. In my work, then there also becomes a question of, do I still have the energy? Given what it took me to save my company, can I still keep going? me to save my company can i still keep going yeah right yeah so like there's a real sort of question of is this possible still given everything that's changed for me in the last couple of years um yeah yeah and we felt that too we definitely felt that too um yeah how did you solve for it i i don't think we did i mean it's not it's it's i don't think we did. I mean, it's not, it's, I don't think we did. I mean, one of the major factors in us, in me deciding to sell SocialCam was like, it's been eight years of struggle. Like, someone's given me some money. Like, yeah, I'll take that. And there were definitely points in Justin.TV before we had product market fit, before we figured out Twitch and that whole thing, before we we got profitable like we were going to sell to iac we were going to sell to google like we i think we were just like hey can we get a win on the board and it sucks because man i talk to founders now who say that and like my friend thinking back like i always tell them it's like those wins aren't important what are you talking right? But like when you're in the trenches, any win feels better, right? Any win. Give me five bucks and call an acquisition. I'll take it. It's better than getting punched in the face every day. And so I probably should be a little bit more, you know, sensitive to that feeling. Yeah, I think that's interesting. And that's something that's floated through my mind this whole time was how easy it is to see from the outside like oh of course like yeah your your life is horrible but it can all be solved because you have roles and responsibilities and need to be clarified you know like it's so easy from an outside perspective to know what is going on and to pattern match and to be like this is where you i you know you should head and and all this stuff and in when you're in the, when everything is on fire and nothing is working, it's so hard to step outside of it and look at it through a different lens. But that's just wisdom broadly, right? It's the same thing as like scarcity mindset, abundance mindset. Like only when you're 35 years old and have some cash, can you be like, dude, when I was 18, man, I could have done anything. But then when you're 50, you're just like, oh, man, when I was 35, man, I could have done anything. Totally. And shameless plug, only because it's organic and natural here, that's exactly why coaching is helpful. It's because there's someone who knows you almost better than you know yourself and can ideally pattern match based off of their own experiences and everything they've observed and be able to tell you in the moment so you don't have to look back you know 20 years later you know it's funny because you know when you and i started talking about coaching and this object in general i was against it completely i was just like you remember this right i was just like what you do as a founder is you suck it up like your job is to suck up the pain right like? Like Michael Jordan doesn't complain when he has to shoot a thousand shots every day. He goes and does his job, right? And what's interesting is I think that I've realized what I actually meant. I think I didn't realize the power and kind of the insight that PG and Jessica had was putting companies into batches. Because in reality, my coaches were my batch mates and the other people in YC. And like in reality, when I needed outside perspective i wanted support that was my like support system and like even today right like those are my friends but like you know steve from madden or emin from twitch or just right like i can go to these people and at various different times they've had various different experiences level of experience right they've been ahead of me, behind me. And so that kind of built this group of people that I could have kind of coaching conversations with. And they're friends, so they know you over time, right? Totally. And it's funny that I'm only realizing it now. So I basically was like, oh, yeah, that coaching is bullshit because I kind of have five coaches already. Yeah, exactly. Right? Yeah, yeah. And I do think most founders, I mean, most founders don't do YC. Most founders don't have a lot of friends that are doing startups. Like, most founders don't have people they know who are further along than them and da, da, da, da. And so, like, in a weird way, there are some situations where, like, you just don't have access to that. I think that Also many founders, so I see only YC founders in my practice. And even they have that community. They have you guys as partners to rely on. But they often don't have the language to even talk about what they're experiencing. And there's just sort of like, so again, sort of coaching as a supportive relationship. But it's also you learning to have a relationship with yourself. So in your own mind, you can get clear about how i'm feeling and what my goal is for today and what my schedule looks like and how do i treat myself today and that's sort of like there's a foundational level um of the work too that's important i think we were remiss before we end to not talk about like what are some of the tools to have these conversations because i I feel as though once you understand you should have them, there's still an advantage to having a game plan. Yeah. You're really good at giving people that game plan. Thank you, Michael. Yeah. So you're saying, say there's a tough conversation. So we need to have a roles and responsibilities conversation. Yeah, yeah, totally. We're a team of three people. You know, how do we do it? How do we make it productive? Yeah, we've talked about this a little bit in this podcast. Like one is a certain amount of removal and objectivity. Like take a step outside of your life for a hot moment and be like, this is what the company needs. Like what are the roles that are needed? What are the tasks that each role needs to be done? Like what is, what are ideally for this company and where we're at and how much money we have? This is what one might do. And then you sort of like plug yourself in. So essentially it's like you, you build a map based off of what's needed in the moment. And in terms of actually having the conversation, stick to the task, talk about the task. Don't talk about your co-founder and what his breath smells like and how he totally failed at you know last week and how much you hate him like sweaty hands but you you talk about again the the task the project the idea all that stuff um and then also speak only as much as possible only from your own experience so use i statement say i think i value i believe i've noticed um and your own feelings if necessary and and do not assume anything from your co-founder like ask them questions like what do you think what is your observation or what is your experience been considering you've done this for you know five months or whatever um how do you approach it when you have when you think that maybe part of this conversation is removing a responsibility from someone or defining the responsibilities in a way that you know someone's going to be angry about so how to have that really tough conversation um and you're thinking like as the ceo like ceo needs to have a tough conversation in my experience the ceo like ceo needs to have a tough i would in my experience the ceo initiates this conversation a little bit um really should yeah totally i mean this is what i would suggest like craig i'm removing the podcast from your job description great i would like be really thoughtful about how you might take that, knowing that you're probably going to have feelings. So I think about everything that I know about Craig and what your life is like. I would like be quite explicit in terms of setting up the meeting. So I would like, you know, say, Craig, I'd like to talk to you about this and this, like, and like literally put it on your calendar. That is different than me just catching you in the middle of our workspace and saying it for example which like i definitely have clients who have done stuff like that so again a second yeah i know totally so like being explicit and intentional about having this conversation and then doing a little bit of prep and and like sitting down and literally even writing out a script for myself if necessary where it's like craig um i know you've been blah blah blah something something podcast podcast unfortunately, like we're going in a different direction. And so I need you more here. Or, you know, like I'd redirect your energy toward this, but then also explicitly say, starting at this date, we're no longer going to have the podcast. And so like, again, I would not say I'm taking this away from you. I'd say I've been thinking and I think your energy is best suited in this direction and be specific again, like put projects or whatever on your plate. And then I would be explicit and say as of date, which I would set in advance, podcast is dead, but say that in much nicer words. So then weirdly that structure is a little bit more CEO to employee. Yeah. How does it change when it's co-founder to co-founder and maybe you know there are certain ceo to co-founder relationships that are hierarchical yeah and there's certain that are kind of like we see a lot of i see what's kind of not right it's like yeah founders and someone has a ceo title yeah like they i don't really you tell me like in my mind i don't know if i'd give very different advice and i'll tell you i'll tell me, like, in my mind, I don't know if I'd give very different advice. And I'll tell you why. Like, I'm assuming, say we're co-founders. Say we're co-founders. In my mind, the conversation is quite similar. But I would assume that there's a level of trust and goodwill between us that's foundational such that if I were to have a difficult conversation and say, you know, my opinion is that we should move away from the podcast in order to do something else, you would not take offense and you would want to ask me some questions to clarify. And then again, assuming trust and goodwill, like you would be okay with this experiment, assuming that it, you know, it's just an experiment, but it doesn't degrade our relationship. A great point as why the podcast should continue to exist. It doesn't degrade our relationship. That's a great point as why the podcast should continue to exist. You know what I mean? Like in that situation where it's like, I think like I've had those conversations where the person has kind of gotten it. Like you kind of make the case and the person, you know, sometimes like having the conversation is more painful. Like thinking about the conversation is more painful than having it. Definitely. When the person on their other side is like yeah the podcast hasn't been going well like yeah well they've been avoiding it too exactly but there are other situations where like Craig would say well no the podcast has 10,000 listeners every week like this is an important part of our brand this is part of There are other situations where it's actually more of a question. So yeah, my response to that is, ideally, you would already have roles and responsibilities outlined, which I would think that would solve whatever this hypothetical question is, where Craig would get to decide what we're doing socially and would have probably cleared that in advance. We're all in alignment because it's directly linked to whatever our company goal is so to me really good point yeah to me it kind of sounds like it's possible the metric changed yeah or if you didn't have a metric in the beginning then you messed up exactly right right um but if it was neither and then it's just a matter of taste then it gets really tricky yeah well yeah and to me like if you've assigned roles and responsibilities you shouldn't right like if if the role responsibility is like craig is figuring out the social media strategy yeah right then like take like either you trust him to do it yeah and then it's his test that runs the show yep or you don't and you're moving the role you're removing the responsibility that's exactly right because you're you and before you we realize this you would be micromanaging Craig. And of course, Craig wouldn't take well to that. But it's not your place to be doing that anyway. That's a really good point. And this is, I actually see that dynamic all of the time. The other thing I would say in regards to something you said a while back is, say you do whatever, remove podcast from Craig. So sorry about your life, Craig. But you can tell that Craig has like weird crinkly feelings about it. But nope, you like he's not saying anything. Yeah. Always ask, like, how are you feeling? Like, how is it? I know how much time and effort you spent on the podcast. I know it was like near and dear to your heart. Like, I don't want to be the bad guy. But like, tell me, you know, tell me what's up, you know, so you kind of like put your friend and colleague hat back on you check in with them personally yeah and give them an opportunity to share however they felt about how you were yeah right and so that gets all the like creepy crawlies out of the closet and you can like smash them together and then you can like walk out of the door and you know and apologize whatever take care of the feelings then get back to work it's funny because even in this example we kind of illustrate what happens in a startup where it's like we almost pre-assume there weren't roles and responsibilities. Yeah. Yeah. Like the solution was being clear about that up front. I feel like that conversation is a more collaborative conversation. What our roles and responsibilities are is a more collaborative founder conversation. Right. And again, ideally, each person's role and responsibility is linked back to that company-wide metric and the goal. And their skills. And their skills. their skills so it's kind of much more of a like you said before it's a dispassionate like resource skill matching as opposed to like a power distribution right and also knowing that maybe every six to eight months that conversation needs to be re-had again just given especially in the early days probably before seed ish. Things change. Yeah, totally. I agree. No, it's good not to surprise people. So I think that was the one you wanted to get to, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah. So there's there's one question from Jeannie McAllister. Right. Jeannie McAllister asks, what's the single most important piece of advice you can give a founder? what's the single most important piece of advice you can give a founder? My single most important piece of advice that I would give to any founders is to be brave. And that means to start having difficult conversations if they're on your mind and you know you need to have them. And that also could mean being brave by getting into therapy and like learning to sit with yourself and the creepy crawlies of your own mind and your own feeling space actually takes a lot of courage and not enough people do it. Also, Jeannie McAllister is my mom. So thank you, mom, for the question. You know, mine is one that originally comes from PG and Trevor, two of the founders of YC, where they would call us every week and say launch. And it was funny because I was the single non-technical founder at Justin.TV and I was just like, I can't press the button until I don't even know where the button is. And they would just call me like, why haven't you launched yet? And it's so funny because there's so much you can talk about and bullshit about and argue about pre-launch that just like after you've launched it's like a it's completely unimportant and like the longer you spend in that pre-launch and if you are dysfunctional the longer you spend in the pre-launch like the more like it's a perfect environment for this function to grow yeah whereas like once you're launched and you have customers yelling at you it's a lot more clarifying like what you should be talking about what you shouldn't be talking about we didn't talk about the background on justin tv ever again after we lost so yeah like in some ways what's so funny is that like you don't have to do any of these things to be successful like a lot of the successful companies we know are in various degrees broken. Absolutely. Yeah. These are kind of hints and tricks that help grease the skids a little. But the reality is the bigger thing is did you launch a product? Do you care about the problem? Is the product solving the problem of the customer? And I hate this. One of the best quotes on culture i've ever heard and it's just it's sucky from like a intellectual place but it's really true is that like um it's not easier to have great culture when the product's working and the company's succeeding yeah like you're just starting instead of starting at a d and having to work you up you're starting at a b plus like it's a lot easier cool all right well thanks so much guys thanks guys thanks for having me