 Mike, Kevin was your group partner when you did YC in the summer 2015 batch. What idea did you apply with? So our basic idea at the time was really to use credit card data to help investors make better investment decisions. And I think one thing, and that is actually not really far from what we do today. The main evolution is that now we work with companies as well, not just investors. But I think a big, a big part of the idea, though, is not just to look at credit card data and try to find interesting things and then tell investors about it, but instead to build an analytics platform, throw that in front of investors, and then let them answer their own questions. And what led you to coming up with that idea? Oh, that is a good question um so uh i did not like i don't come from an investing background or i don't come from finance at all um i actually worked in video games um and the same is true my co-founder lillian so she uh she and i met at electronic arts um we worked together there and then at a um another gaming startup before that i was in ad tech and like i've always been you know we're both software engineers like we've always been in the tech world uh but we've got plenty of friends in finance and one of those friends just out of the blue called me one day and was like mike i need your help i've got two terabytes of data on a hard drive how do i load this into excel and that that was like it was it was one of those moments where uh again as a software engineer right like yeah you know i hear i get this question like oh god you know like why like why it's like why are you asking me this right so he's in new york like i'm i'm in the bay area it's middle of the afternoon um uh why like why am i fielding this um And I wasn't feeling particularly helpful. I was like, what did your engineer, like, did you ask your dev team, did you ask your engineering team? And I just hear silence. And then, Mike, what are you talking about? We've got an IT guy, and that's it. And that blew my mind because he was at a $30 billion hedge fund. And I just assumed that all hedge funds looked like Two Sigma or Rentech or just these places that have hundreds of quants and hundreds of engineers. But in reality, most hedge funds have a handful of analysts and just some back office support. They don't have any coders in house. I think that's when we realized there's this huge opportunity because investors are like, you know, investors, they make money off of having an information edge, right? Off of knowing things that other people don't. And a lot of people who work at hedge funds are very, very clever, right? They're looking for this edge, like wherever they can find it. And over recent years, increasingly, they've been looking at things like Google Trends, right? To see like, oh, is there some leading indicator in search terms that would indicate some bigger shift in consumer sentiment about, I don't know, some company. Very unsophisticated sort of analysis yeah yeah but at the same time like a clever idea and it you know oftentimes works right you've got investors like subscribing to things like comscore looking at how many how many uh how many visits to a website are happening and because that roughly is like roughly correlated um with uh with actual sales um and it's also like this nice leading indicator in the sense that um public companies only come out with they only report metrics uh once a quarter and it's like not right at the end of the quarter it's actually sometime afterwards so you can actually look at how many people visit. If you can see how many people visited Amazon.com over the past quarter, then you can look at the full quarter of information and then you can see how well that correlates with the resulting reported performance. So how'd you go from helping someone with a two terabyte Excel problem and working on video games to being like, okay, this is now time for us to like quit our jobs and solve this problem. Because like, what were you doing there at EA? Like what are both your roles? Yeah. So, um, so we're, so we are not video game programmers, right? We were working at a video game company, but my specialty was building high scale infrastructure. Um, And Lillian's specialty is building data pipelines and analytics teams. And what, you know, when you look at the video game space, you know, like how does like a company like Zynga, I think Zynga epitomizes this, right? They're like very metrics driven, very data driven, right? They, they were one of the things they did very well is like optimize that they optimize the hell out of their games. So when you think about an online game, and you think about what you want to optimize for, right, you want to actually let's just let's, let's talk about this in terms of fun. If your game is too hard, no one's going to play it. And the game is too easy, no one's going to play it and the game is too easy no one's going to play it so you have to find like this balance where the game is not too hard and not too easy um and if you have an online game then you have this like amazing leg up over um over games that are you know like pressed to disc and then shipped out because you can update them um if you and like the the best way to tell if your game is too hard or too easy is to simply look look at, you know, where, like how far people make it into the game. And so, for instance, you could look at how many players make it, you know, from level one to level two. And if there's like a severe drop off, right? If like not enough people are doing it, then it's a signal that, hey, you know, maybe, you know, maybe we need to tweak this. Of course, the person who needs to answer that question is a game designer. And usually game designers aren't writing SQL. And so, you know, you've got all these metrics, like you're tracking all these, all these events, right? Of, of like, oh, a player, you know, they passed level one, or like player died, or whatever. All of these events are being tracked. And you, you know, or whatever, all of these events are being tracked. And you know, you're like, this is this is like a standard sort of analytics pipeline, right? You've you, you, you instrument your application, you have all these events streaming out, you store them somewhere, you do some sort of processing on them, and then you dump them into some place where you can someplace that you can query. But then you've got these, these people who typically aren't coders, like a game designer or product manager, they want to answer questions about how people are behaving in the game. And, you know, you basically have two paths at this point, right? If a game designer says, like, how many people made it to level two, then as, like, as you know, somebody on the data team, you can say, okay, let me run that report for you. And then you go and you query it and you put together the results and you send it back. And then they look and they say, oh, this is great. How many people made it to level three? And you're like, oh, you roll your eyes and you're like, I see where this is going. And at that point, you're like, okay, I have a choice. I can either play this like go between right and like fetching data over and over again or I can build tools. Right. And if I build a tool and hand that tool to the designer and say, you know, here, like answer this yourself, then, you know, I can focus on doing the way of this person answering their own questions. This is exactly what we did in the video game space. And this is a pattern that we recognize could be really useful in the investment space, right? You've got all these investment analysts, and they know so much about the companies that they are making investment decisions on. And they know what questions they want to answer. And so you can either put yourself in a position where you're trying to guess at the questions and pre-writing reports and trying to sell them reports. Or you can just give them some sort of tool that actually empowers them to answer all the crazy questions that they thought they couldn't answer. So this is the thing that's fascinating. You guys are building tools for understanding how to improve video games. How does that become all of a sudden the skill set needed to sell financial and analytic software and insights to people who run hedge funds and investment firms or even to do corporate competitive tracking? Because to me, it's just like, I imagine they're going to ask about what's your background? How do I know? How does that start? What made you realize that we could probably do this? Yeah, I think it comes down to what is the fundamental problem being solved? And the fundamental problem is that you've got somebody who probably isn't a coder, and they want to answer a question of behavioral data. You write video games, and then how you decide what was the first product going to be? Yeah, I mean, I think for us, it was, it was really digging in further to understand what types of data investors were most interested in. What we found is that transactional data, specifically credit card transaction data, is one of the things that they were really excited about, but they were banging their heads against it. Fundamentally, credit card transaction data is a messy data set with unstructured data problems baked into it. And the skill sets of investors, even the more technical ones, those tend to lean more towards time series analysis as opposed to dealing with large, messy data sets. What kind of questions were the investors interested in like from that data set? Yeah, I mean, I think like one of the one of the main things is just like, how how is Chipotle doing? Right? Like, are they? So like, they famously had a food poisoning incident a couple of years ago, actually, I think they had several, but, you know, they wanted like investors, eager investors wanted to know, you know, what is the impact to their actual revenue? How come there was no way to answer this before you guys came onto the scene? Yeah. So this is one of the interesting things. So there actually was a way to answer it. It was just a terrible path. Right. The way to answer this before was with a survey. Right. answer it it was just a terrible path right the way to answer this before was with a survey right so you go to some market research company and you say like hey um there's this you know like chipotle the food the whole food poisoning thing um you know can you can you help me understand like how many people stopped going to chipotle and they just have to like try to find a bunch of people that match a demographic and then hope like these people answer are you going to represent like exactly it takes it takes weeks or months it costs tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars you end up with this tiny sample of you know like oh good we got a hundred respondents and they said that you know they um uh you know from this this pool of a hundred you know like 20 of them said that they uh considered stopping their Chipotle dining altogether. And then what do you guys do instead? So for us, because we have direct observations of millions of US consumers, we see all their purchases, right? We can just look it up right away. In fact, we don't even need to look it up. We can just give you a tool and then you can find the answer yourself. And so you got your first customers during YC, correct? How did you go about even getting them? Yeah, that's a, that's a good question. I have to think back. So this is 2015. So our very first customer, uh, was a VC who also ended up investing in us. Um, and I think one of the things that was interesting is that actually this is one of the things where I feel like we got to cheat a little bit because we were in YC. Because we were in YC, VCs are always excited to talk to YC companies. They're trying to figure out who is in the batch and then try to invest before demo day. That's exactly right. And so we had a whole bunch of these um these like funny uh these like funny meetings where you know we're trying to get in front of them to you know pitch them on a product and you know they're happy to take the meeting because they want to hear about what we do and so it ends up being this like dual purpose thing where they're like, okay, show me the product. Now tell me your business model. And you're like, well, would you like to buy the product? And, you know, fortunately, like a lot of times the answer was like, did end up being yes. And now most, most of the VCs here in the Bay Area, they are our customers, you know, but it was really interesting navigating those, those, those early conversations. What were they excited about? Because with credit card data, there's some things that it's really good at showing and identifying, and some things that are not so good. So for example, it tends to be great for predicting consumer trends, but... Yeah, I mean, it's basically, I think you just have to keep in mind, what is it we're actually seeing? And what we're seeing is spending for a large proportion of US consumers. And is spending for a large proportion of US consumers. And so if you want to understand a company that doesn't target consumers, if it doesn't target specifically US consumers, and more specifically, if it doesn't sell things directly to them, we're not going to see General Mills that's all sold through grocery stores. But if it's something that you might see in your credit card statement, then those are the things that we can help with. Like Uber, Lyft. Exactly. All the meal gobble, et cetera. And then what you're not going to see is B2B enterprise companies, et cetera. But it tends to be like lots of people are interested in consumer stuff because they're the fastest growing, Lots of people are interested in consumer stuff because they're like the fastest growing, most interesting segment. Exactly. There's more. Yeah, exactly. The market is more than big enough. And so are they using it as a market sizing tool? Because if you're investing in a seed stage company. Yeah. So probably the primary use case among VCs is actually diligence. And when you think about like put yourself in the shoes of a venture capitalist. So some company walks in and in and they throw some numbers on some slides. They show it to you and you're like, okay, great. I have lots of follow-on questions. Do I try to get the numbers from you? And then additionally, there's a whole bunch of questions I have about your market, which you may not even know the answers to. So a good example of this would be if you are like, so as a VC, somebody comes in and pitches you. They're in, actually, let's just talk about Bird and Lime, right? So imagine you're a VC, Bird comes in and pitches you and they're like, they show you this chart and it's like, it's the perfect hockey stick chart. And you're like, this is amazing. You know, like I've never seen growth like this before. Um, and, uh, at the same time though, you've, you know, you've heard of other companies, you know, Lime is out there. You've heard of like jump bikes. You want to pick the best one. Exactly. Like, are you talking to number one are you talking to number two you know like what's um and also uh fundamentally are the like if you know if uh bird is showing good unit economics like is that um is that best in class you know or could it be even better uh and this is an area like this is one of the key areas where we help vcs um is in giving them, not just into the company they're talking to, but into their competitors, right? Into each of those, like every company in that space in relation to one another. So we can say like, oh yeah, Bird, Lime, like here's where Bird's winning, here's where Lime's winning, right? Here are where the differences are in how well those customers perform, like how much they spend and so on and so forth. But when you say unit economics, how do you uncover that data? So we don't see unit economics. Sorry. So obviously, we don't see the cost side. We just see the spending side. Right. So you could say an average Bird customer spends $40 a week versus a Lime customer that might be $20. Exactly. And I think, and generally, like, again, if you're a VC, like, you have your own ideas for how to estimate the cost side of the equation. Okay, gotcha. What other metrics are you able to show? Like, I was always impressed when looking into the dashboard inside of Second Measure about, like, like wow I can not just see like how much revenue is like being pulled but also things like cohorts lifetime value etc and so like what metrics like get investors like super excited yeah I mean let's I guess taking a step back let's think about like what are the main problems that we're trying to solve so one is generally focused on company performance, right? And this includes things like competitive intelligence and benchmarking, right? Like, show me, you know, what is, I don't know, like, what is the relative market share of the various meal kit players? You know, how long do their customers stick around, right? How much do they spend over time, right? Like what are the lifetime sales after 12 months? And again, if we split those into different cohorts, you know, are newer cohorts performing better or worse than older cohorts? So there's all of these things in and around company performance. And then separately, there's stuff around consumer behavior, right? And these are things like, where else do my customers shop? Things intended to help you get a better picture of who your customers are and really help you hone in on picture of, you know, who your customers are and like really help you hone in on like who your best customer. And I'm saying you, but really it could be you, it could be your competitor, it could be a company you're doing diligence on, you know, some target company. What are some good examples of that? Because your blog is basically just this, right? It's like just insights. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting, right? Because our core product is really about empowerment and saying like, hey, you as a user, you can answer whatever questions you want within the space of US consumer spending. But then, and we don't sell research. Oh, so you don't answer questions for people directly. So we'll do it on a case by, on like a project by project basis, but we were not the ones coming up with the questions, right? If somebody comes to us and says like, I have this specific question. Um, you know, I tried, I tried this in your application. Like it, you know, I can't quite answer it yet. Like I have this more specific question. Um, you know, could it be answered? Those are cases where we can, you know, we can do it like a one off research project. But those are and those are like paid projects, but we don't publish those. The thing we don't do is we don't proactively do research and go out and like, you know, call up 10 of our clients and try to sell it to them. Gotcha. What's some stuff that you guys have put on the blog recently? That's your favorite. Yeah. so so we've started some one thing we've started doing is so uh actually if we talk about our blog uh we we also need to talk about um like our press mentions so we actually work with the press a whole ton right and so we keep getting quoted in like wall street journal financial times etc and i mean this has been great for us it's great for the reporters too because you know they're trying to write about like the upcoming like potential lyft ipo or you know whatever uh and they want to support their reporting with more information and we can help provide that uh them with that information we're happy to do so um the uber lyft thing is like a recurring topic and so in our blog we've decided you know we're just going to keep publishing periodically um are the publishing updates so when you choose like a question you want to ask about like the uber versus lyft do you guys like have come up with the initial questions and now you like listen to what the press are kind of asking you that they want to verify or is it always you guys are coming up with um so i'd say it is us always coming up with it. We actually have a dedicated editorial team. Gotcha. So we've got, you know, we literally have a team of data scientists and writers who just pay attention to what's going on in, like in the news, you know, what's going on, you know, with with companies that like could potentially be interesting to others, the person who runs it, like, you know, she has a journalistic background. I mean, this is, this is their core focus, right? Is find interesting things to write about it, write about, and then write about them. So let's talk about some examples. So before we started recording one, you mentioned was Stitch Fix and where the customers of Stitch Fix do and do not maybe spend. Yeah. So specifically we had, so this is a really interesting thing, right? Because one thing, so part of understanding what questions people are asking is like just going out and talking to people. And one recurring question we heard about Stitch Fix was like, is Stitch Fix cannibalizing like department store sales, right? Like, are they are they competitive with department stores? And so we decided to dig in, we had no idea what the answer was, we decided to dig in. And we attack the problem by basically saying, okay, let's look at let's look at people spending at department stores before and after they become a stitch fix customer and what we found is that stitch fix had uh no impact on department store spend right people just started spending more on clothes period right and in fact the people who um stitch fix stitch fixes best customers actually spent uh even more on even more on clothes um uh before becoming a stitch fix customer than after oh like stitch fix inspired them to go out and find more clothes yeah i think one way to characterize it is that uh is that it you know piques their interest in in fashion and so they uh they don't they don't spend any any less they just but part of it is like it probably jump starts like a variety. They're like, oh, I'm introduced to a variety of stuff that I never would have considered beforehand. And now it's like, oh, now when I'm out there in the real world looking at stuff, I'm like, oh, there's more things that might appeal to me because I've been exposed to them. Yeah, and the key thing is that it's not displacing the spend right and that was i mean that was a real surprise um and also like it's also like a really important question to answer because uh if you're at a department store and you're trying to figure out like you know is this sitch fix friend or foe yeah right like this this this really points more to friend so do you actively track like the rise and fall of brands because i'm wondering there must be instances of certain things being swapped out. A recent post was Peloton memberships going up ahead of SoulCycle, right? So, that's really interesting. Are there trades happening that you can follow? So, sorry, when you say trades, do you mean people sign up for Peloton instead of SoulCycle? Yeah. So, I mean, really, again, instead of SoulCycle? Yeah. So, uh, I mean, really we, again, we, this is something we will, uh, attack from an editorial perspective. Um, but again, it's, you know, like our core business is about, um, putting a product in front of, uh, in front of our clients that they, through which they can answer their own questions. Um, now on the blog side, yeah, I mean the Peloton, Peloton and SoulCycle story is is super interesting like peloton is a beast um and soul cycle is uh has some interesting like actually so so after we came out with this article soul cycle basically they had a uh a nice like non-denial denial um where they basically said uh like we don't know what they're talking about their numbers are like our numbers are great um but didn't actually dispute the metrics. To give some context, what did your blog post say? And then what was it that like SoulCycle was nervous about? I mean, the short version is that Peloton has now surpassed SoulCycle in terms of like the number of active Peloton members, right? And this is based on a spending, based on spending behavior. Active Peloton members on a monthly basis have surpassed the number of SoulCycle active riders on a monthly basis. Is there an overlap, like a Venn diagram of people who used to be SoulCycle and have switched to Peloton? There's both a current overlap and there's the Sankey diagram type thing of people who used to be one and now are another. Whoa. Hmm. Have you been following how Amazon basics has developed their products? Uh, I am generally familiar with it. I'd say for us, that is, uh, not something where we have a lot of visibility into because at the end of the day, we just see an Amazon purchase. Just like a general Amazon. Exactly. But you've done some research about Amazon Prime people. Yes, yeah, we did. So this is a case where we did a much deeper dive and we actually gave several talks on this. So one thing, and this is spearheaded again by editorial team um you know one of our data scientists brandon so he so he dug into uh amazon uh amazon uh amazon's customer base and specifically you know one he wanted to like understand really the differences in behavior between amazon prime members and non-Prime members and how that's changed over time and really how important Amazon Prime's members are to Amazon. And I think one of the interesting takeaways is that increasingly, Amazon is looking more and more like a subscription business. They're increasingly reliant on Amazon Prime customers for their revenue. And then another interesting thing is that even people who, so people who became an Amazon Prime subscriber, even if they lapse, right? Even if they are no longer a subscriber, they're still spending more on Amazon after than they did before. How do you get to that conclusion? What was the evidence that showed that, oh, Amazon is more focused on subscriber? How did you guys get to that conclusion? I would characterize it that they're less, it's not that they're more focused on subscribers, but instead that an increasing proportion of their revenue is derived from people who are Amazon subscribers. I got you. So it's one of these things where it's like, oh, it's turning out like Amazon's most valuable revenue streams comes from the Amazon Prime subscribers. Yes. And we don't know the reason why, but like there's obvious things that people can sort of portend. For example, just like hey they already pay for this membership so they might as well use it yeah when the ordering and buying stuff so it's like an excuse to have something delivered to your house versus go to the store because i'm already paying for the membership it's like a cost sunk thing and so when it comes to um product development on your side are you incorporating this data in any way? Or is it just talking to your users, developing product from there? Yeah. So when we think about improving our product, we have a few different streams for really feeding the backlog. So one is internally driven, right? And this is, it's based on, you know, it's based on like where we know we want to take our application. you know it's based on like where we know we want to take our um our application um and also uh factors in you know us going out and proactively speaking with our own customers like doing that user research and really like digging into their use cases then use cases and then figuring out where the gaps are and then attacking those that's one another is i mentioned earlier that we do some custom research uh for customers. This is like, you know, think of it as a professional services like approach. You know, this this is something that also helps feed our backlog, because if if we see recurring requests, then, you know, this is probably something we should add to our product. And then finally, we have like the editorial side, which for us is like the best form of dog fooding right so we're um you know we can go in and like try to use our app to answer a question if we find that we hit a wall right we can't it's like well we've we've dug as far as we can go and now we have to go to the data behind it to answer the question like you know that's's a great signal that this is something we should probably build. One thing that's interesting to me is that I feel like we just recently just talked to Jay Klamka at Insight Data Science. And I feel like data scientists, hearing about your company, this seems like a dream job. I work on interesting problems and questions. And then even if it's with your editorial board, that's figuring that stuff out. It seems fascinating to me. It's like, oh, every problem is going to be kind of different. We put that out there. And whether solving is stuff for your customers or stuff to like promote the company. Like, how do you look at like finding like, because you guys are hiring right now right yes like how do you find a good data science like what a trace that you're looking for that you know is going to be a good fit for this kind of like nebulous work yeah it's such a good question i feel like um data scientists is such a an overloaded and i think a bit over, like an overstretched term. I think for us, specifically, what we're looking for are, you know, people who are like scientists with a capital S, who have very strong quantitative backgrounds, and can understand from first principles, like the problems that they're trying to solve, I think very frequently, what you find are um you know people uh interested in in interested in data science um you know they learn a lot of the tools but maybe skip over the fundamentals when you say like are able to think from first principles i think this is something i hear as a common theme also for people who are looking for good engineers or product managers etc like what does that mean exactly yeah um so let's think about it this way. So a third of our company have PhDs, right? We have, we're basically equally, so most of the team is technical. How big is the team? So we're 60 people today. And most, so most of the team is technical and it's about a 50-50 split between engineers and data scientists. Now on the data side, what you'll find is that we have people with backgrounds ranging from statistical genetics to cognitive neuroscience to string theory to earth science to climate science, really all over the place. And the common theme, though, is that all of them are extremely good in statistics, right? So that you've got this, there's sort of this statistical foundation that, you know, that in our opinion, like everything is built on top of. And it's our view that if you come in with that, that strong, that strong, like, you know, mathy foundation, that learning the tools, like the tools can be taught, right? We can, like, we're happy to help, to help people get onboarded with like using Python, like, okay, cool. You've only used R, like, that's fine, right? We can, we can help you like learn to switch over to Jupyter notebooks. But the thing that we're not going to teach you is we're not going to teach you how to do math. And then how does that translate like into the first principles? So, because I usually think of it as like someone who's willing to challenge, like I will give someone a task and sometimes they will come back and say like, actually, can we just dive out? And I was like, what's the reason behind this task? And maybe just be able to be like, oh, actually, I think I can improve the question we need to be looking into instead yeah i think this a lot of this ties in with like the nature of the types of problems we're trying to solve um right you can't like there's no there's no like i don't know playbook of best practices for um for dealing with the problems associated with transactional data right there's no playbook on building a, you know, an analytics platform focused on consumer spending behavior, right? A lot of the things that we're doing, you know, they're either like, we're either we're doing them for the first time. And in some cases, maybe they are simply being done for the first time. So it's something where we benefit from people who, you know, who can approach these like big nebulous and open ended problems and come in and figure out how to structure and decompose the problem and then tackle it piece by piece. So do you train for that or you just hope that they have it? Like, what is the test is my question, really? Yeah. Because I mean, because it's really just like, here's a problem. Is my question, really. Yeah. Because, I mean, because it's really just like, here's a problem. But then before you get overwhelmed by the problem, because often you're told like, hey, you have to take route A or B. Usually there's options like C through infinity. Right. And so you have to ask why. And so how do you, whether it's through interviews or training, get that out of employees? Yeah. that out of employees yeah for us um i mean i think of this as less a less something that we train people to do and more something that you know we uh we we hire for like we screen for in the hiring process so uh we we've taken great care in designing and actually iterating on our interview process uh and i'd say that there is a significant significant technical evaluation where we're trying to test for exactly these types of things. For data scientists, one of the things that we do is we actually give them a big, messy data set. And we say, it's open-ended. Do some research. And then present it to us. Tell us what you were looking for and tell us what you found. What's some common mistakes that people do that end up not working out so well and what's some stuff that the really great employee and applicants have been able to do um i know i'm trying to help people like cheat on you i'd say uh then like the number one mistake that people make is that they uh you know they assume they assume too much of the data, they assume the data is perfect, right? They assume that what we give them, you know, that like, oh, like, this is easy, all I have to do is just like, you know, load it into whatever, like into pandas or loaded into like, throw it on a database and just start running queries, get the answers and then throw it into a slide and be done with it. Um, like it never, like that never really works. Um, because like this is, and this is just isn't how, uh, data in our world works. Like there are always dragons like somewhere. And so a big part of this, uh, of this exercise is like, well, how, you know, like how diligent were you in looking for dragons, right? And anticipating these like problems. And then, you know, you don't necessarily need to solve all of them, but you need to be aware of them because they actually can distort your findings. And so as long as you, like, if you identify them, and even if you have findings that are invalid, but you're able to identify that, you know, hey, like I found this thing, but I made this, like I deliberately made this assumption, the simplifying assumption so I could complete it in a reasonable amount of time, like that's fine. So the good people, what they're good at is like not starting from their own assumption, but actually trying to query and figure out what were the assumptions that I'm working with. Yeah, exactly. Whether it's in the data, the question, et cetera. And so once you have that, it helps you understand is like, how strong or how weak is my ultimate conclusion going to be as a result? Yeah. I mean, it's like, it's sort of like building a house, right? If you, if you were to hire a construction crew to come out and build a house and they just came and they just like came out on site and they just came out on site and they just started erecting walls and then they hand over the keys, you slam the front door, the whole thing falls over because it was on a shaky foundation, then clearly they failed. And so for us, what we like is to find people who really like to understand the foundation that they're working with to make sure that it will be sound when they build the house. So I've never done a project involving credit card data. Can you, but, but then I use these like tools like mint and it consistently classifies things as the wrong thing. Right. Can you explain to me why this stuff is not normalized? Cause it seems like incredibly valuable, potentially not that difficult. Obviously it is difficult, but like, why isn't it normalized? Why do you have to clean it all? Yeah. So I think, I guess, maybe the easiest place to start is like, think about your last credit card statement, right? Like, think about a time where you've looked at your credit card statement, and you saw a transaction on there. And it says something like S-Bucks or like, I don't know, like M-W space San Carlos, which would be like men's warehouse San Carlos. It doesn't say men's warehouse. It doesn't say Starbucks, right? It says something which if you like squint at it and scratch your head a little bit, like you as a human can probably figure out what it is. Now, the problem is that there are many different companies all putting in some piece. Actually, the fundamental problem here is that some human decided how to represent that store in a credit card statement. And they're working within this constraint of a limited a limited space right they only have a certain number of characters um and they have to type something in which again communicates to a human that like yeah you were at walmart yeah um so you don't dispute the charge um but it was never designed uh for a machine to read and so, like the result of this is that there are, you end up with this cardinality problem, right? You end up with many different variants for a single merchant. And part of our job is to find all the variants and to map it back to that singular merchant. But there, so you're saying there are multiple text strings associated with men's warehouse in san jose or san jose or whatever yeah so within our data set uh we have so we're looking at um like 50 plus billion transactions we have 1 billion unique transaction descriptions and i'll tell you what there are not 1 billion unique transaction descriptions. And I'll tell you what, there are not 1 billion merchants in the US. Right. Okay. So like Macy's alone has like 3 million different representations. What? Yeah, I'm just like kind of baffled that it was never like, hey, Macy's, your store number 1200, whatever, done. So there are basically two layers of problems. So one is that, you know, one is that one is the human layer, right? Where you've got somewhere you've got a human and they're setting up the point of sale, you know, system like the swiping device for, you know, for a certain Macy's store. Let's actually let's just talk about McDonald's for a second. So McDonald's, you've got franchises so when somebody sets up their franchise you know they they work with like a point of sale uh provider and they get their point of sale set up and like okay well you know what should this be it should be like mcdonald's um i don't know like f139 okay great right now we've got this this one location um the problem is depending on depending on um how the transaction is processed the apostrophe that you expected to to appear in mcdonald's could be a space it could be a star it could be deleted right could just be you know mcdonald nothing s um right and like basically uh the the two problems you know one is a human one where different humans could describe things differently they can even typo the name of their own company um which happens um and then the second problem is uh there are like various perturbations that can take place um uh in the processing uh chain i think part of it was like the corrections had to happen by users of Mint. Yeah. And I think humans don't want to correct that data. No. Diligently. And also if it turns out it's like, oh, I can see a human getting really frustrated where it's like, this is the 50th time I had to correct that this is coming from McDonald's. And therefore, like, I no longer want to correct this anymore because like this is just not any good and so the problem actually is like oh all of them are so different and so humans are giving up on the classification when really it's like this is actually I have like such limited incentive to classify my end I don't really care I mean I'm sure some people do but I don't really care how much I mean the problem gets even worse sometimes I don't want to know yeah it's like i need to sit in that like fast food denial yeah if amazon was all classified in one category that would not be good so i mean like this you know if you're uh if you're coming into this like with a i don't know like a a software mindset right you're thinking like oh yeah there should be some like unique identifier for uh for blue apron right but if you actually just look at all the Blue Apron transactions, what you're gonna find out is that, you know, there's actually more than one Blue Apron. Did you know that there's a Blue Apron grocery store? That's- Oh, that's very close. It's in Brooklyn. Yeah. Yeah, like things like that, or like United, like United Airlines, of course, but then there's also a United grocery store. And they show up, in some cases, they show up the exact same on your credit card statement. How much time are you guys spending cleaning up data? Is it like perpetual and nonstop? So we don't think of it as like a fundamentally human, there are human elements of it, but I mean, really it's something that we, you know, try to use machine-based approaches to get to like operate as a giant lever um for uh i guess we think of it this way right we we've basically had to build two different products so one is this pipeline which ingests raw transactional data and then output something useful and like you know the the things that we do in that process are things like like this uh this entity resolution um which is what we've just been talking about with merchants but it also includes like other things like um you know figuring out um for an uber transaction it says san francisco it always says san francisco but you know obviously not all uber rides are like in this city so oh looking at other transactions around at the sea of like oh maybe this originated somewhere else or exactly so we figure out uh we figure out the location of the the of the purchaser um based on you know where their other purchases are um and that lets us uh like fill in the gaps so we say like oh you know what ignore this location for uber um and instead you know use this computed location um there's there are other things that we need to solve and then there's this whole other thing around around de biasing, right, because we basically have this, this, this longitudinal study going on, right, we have this panel, the panel of consumers, and obviously, it's not going to be a perfectly representative sample of the US. So, you know, so we endeavor to figure out all the ways in which it isn't representative, and then apply corrections to make sure that, you know, whatever results you get, do represent the greater population. So anyway, so that's, that's one thing that we're building is this, this pipeline, and we've got 10 to 15 people working on that. But then we also have our analytics platform, right? This is the um think of it as the the hyper specialized tableau where you know we've we've built in lots of different analyses um that operate on this this nice clean data set that the pipeline is outputted one increasingly growing set of customers for you guys are like corporations doing this for like sort of i guess guess, competitive analysis. Yeah. How did that come up? And so like, why is that? I mean, I can see why it would be interesting to them, but I'm just wondering, are they looking at questions very differently when they're looking at your platform to answer them? Yeah, I think this is like, this is a really interesting journey for us because, you know, we started out building a platform that was focused on helping investors understand company performance, right? And YC hammers, you know, hammers in that you need to like focus, focus, right? That it's not like, it's better to have something, a small number of people love than something that many people just like. And we took that, like, you know, we really took that to heart and we didn't want to work with companies for a long time because we were afraid that it would spread out our focus. One of the things that changed our thinking was this. So there's a book from Clayton Christensen. So he's a professor at HBS and he wrote Innovator's Dilemma. More recently, he published a book called Competing Against Luck. And in it, he talks about the theory of jobs to be done. And the basic premise is that when you're thinking about substitutes for your product, you shouldn't be thinking about things that just look similar to your product. Instead, you should be thinking about fundamentally, what is the job that your customer is hiring your product to do? Right? And if, and this, this, I guess, this changed the way we thought about focus. Because, you know, like this whole time, we've been, we've been thinking like, oh, investors, investors, investors, but in truth, there are many different use cases for investors, right? A fundamental discretionary hedge fund, right? Like think of it as a group of analysts who are, you know, working in Excel and trying to figure out like, is, you know, is Stitch Fix a good, like poised for growth in the longer term. Like they have a very different use case from a quant investor who's focused on like someone who has a purely systematic strategy, and is trying to trade, you know, on a daily, weekly, or even like, like just quarter to quarter based on where they think companies are likely to beat or miss relative to expectation, right? These are different use cases. Now, if we think about one of our core use cases as being helping people understand company performance, then that's when we began to understand like, okay, well, investors want to know how companies are performing, so do other companies right companies want to know how their uh how their uh competitors are doing and um we had a really convenient way into this because we were working with so many vcs they were actually bringing our product into the boardroom you know they were showing like they were showing their portfolio companies and then the ceo would raise their hand and say like, wait, how do I get that? It's an interesting sales strategy. Yeah, I think like maybe you could speak to that a little bit more because there are so many YC companies. And oftentimes people just think like YC is just consumer. Very much not true. YC is just software, also not true. How do you guys think about your sales process? Also not true. How do you guys think about your sales process? Yeah, I mean, this is an area of focus for us now. We were very, very fortunate to have just a ton of, I mean, really like a ton of virality, which is like a funny thing to talk about in the context of really enterprise sales. But we actually haven't done any outbound sales yet, right? We have 150 clients. Every single one of them came to us through inbound, right? They basically, you know, somebody signed up and then they told their friend about us. Their friend reached out, loved what they saw, signed up, told their friends and so on. I mean, it's a box of secrets. Yeah. And so to i mean it's a box of secrets yeah and so to me it's just like hey i have this thing and it lets me see stuff that it's like that i've never been able to see before and so like that's a very remarkable thing that's easy to spread around yeah exactly like yeah everyone knows that you know uber is bigger than lyft but like how much we can actually quantify it um and i think that's it's a lot of uh like it's yeah it's a lot of fun and for certain people right it's sort of uh it unlocks like a new way of doing their job um and so it's it's it's become like table stakes uh and that's that's been great for us um but now like you know we just raised our series a um so that was led by bessemer and co-led by Goldman Sachs and then we also had participation from Citi Citi Bank? Correct Goldman Sachs and Citi Bank, that's such interesting partners or investors to be leading around, why were they super excited? Yeah, I think we fall into I'd say the reasons are different for each. We fall into this general category. When you're talking about the investment world, we fall into this category of companies generally known as alternative data companies. Alternative data basically refers to anything that can... any information that can help you understand how companies are performing um that isn't just the traditional reported fundamentals um or like stock prices or things like that so this uh collectively it's referring to credit card data um satellite imagery uh web traffic data geolocation uh like from data for mobile devices and so on gotcha goldman sachs is making has made a big push into the alternative data space and you know they they had not made an investment in any company touching uh dealing with credit card data and so we're like you know we're their horse in that race, if you will. Awesome. And they've been just phenomenal. I think here in the Bay Area, everybody's focused on working with big traditional VCs. But I think we've actually had tremendous success working with less expected like, I don't know, less, less expected players, I guess, out here. So our seed round was actually led by Jeffries, another investment bank. And one thing that we found to be true for both Jeffries and Goldman is that they are extraordinarily well connected, you know, like in New York City, in the East Coast, with not just investors, but also with companies, right? Because they're investment banks. So they've been just tremendous in terms of helping us get in front of more, you know, more of the types of, you know, clients we want. Now for Citi, of course, they have a ton of uh of of transactional data and like this is something that you know they like this is a pain point that they feel internally like all the things that i described about um about messy transactional data um they understand it seems odd to me that they wouldn't have a handle on this already themselves so it's a really really hard problem like i can't understate like why why are they so bad why is everyone else so bad it's not i wouldn't say that it's that everyone else is so bad i think it's just that um you're so good or their other products are so profitable yeah i think it's the people are focused on solving specific problems and so like i wouldn't say that you problems. And so I wouldn't say that Mint is terrible at identifying, at understanding transactions. They're good at different things because they're focused on solving a different problem. Like Mint.com is not trying to, sorry, they're trying to solve the problem of, you know what, we need a best guess as to what this transaction is. But we need to do it for all the transactions, right? Like we flip that problem upside down, we say, you know what, we don't care about most transactions, we only care about the, you know, 5000 or so companies that we track and growing, right? We care about that. And we can't be wrong. Because if we're wrong, somebody's going to lose millions of dollars. So the constraints actually help make it much easier as a result of not having to focus on everything. Exactly. It makes the problem tractable. And because we're focused on that, like what we're like, what we're discovering is that there are there are surprisingly interesting applications of this thing that we built for this like hyper specific use case. You know, we're suddenly we're finding out that like, oh, this could, you built for this like hyper specific use case um you know we're suddenly we're finding out that like oh this could you know this could help um you know this type of company uh i don't know find uh find new customers right like it's a company that sells to other businesses and they want to find fast-growing businesses so they can sell to them um this is uh i think this is one of the this has been one of the interesting parts about our journey is discovering, really by accident, all of these additional use cases that we really didn't anticipate. One thing that's tricky, and it's probably one of these great problems I have as a company, is that if you're people's secret weapon and it becomes table stakes to be like, hey, if we want to stay ahead of the game, and I have to, like Bloomberg is a good example. It's like, oh, I have to sign up for Bloomberg if I'm a trader to use this. And I think second measure might easily come into that category as well for a lot of investors. I feel like the tricky part is then like if all of a sudden now everyone is using us like how do you develop the product like how do you keep it interesting yeah so um keep people on board versus like jumping ship or trying to find some other solution yeah i mean this is uh this is a really really good point in particular for um for the investment audience right because uh investors are looking like they they make money off of looking like they make money off of information edge, they make money off of knowing things that other people don't. And this actually informed a lot about how we tackled this problem. Because we could have very easily focused on selling, quote, insights, or quote, signal to hedge funds, right? Where we say like, oh, here are the most interesting, I don't know, like trading signals. And we send those out. But as we add more and more customers, then the value to each one becomes significantly diluted. And so we took the view that in particular, because transactional data, there's no single owner of transactional data. There's no way to to like control how many people have access to it. Why not just assume everybody's going to have access to it one day and then focus on building building a tool to help people, you know, answer more creative questions. building a tool to help people, you know, answer more creative questions, right? And our view is that even if everybody has access to the same data, that if they simply focus on asking better questions, they'll still find their own edge. Now, that's for the investment community, though, on the corporate side, on the corporate side, I mean, really, the fact that you're, a fact that somebody else uses the product. I think that would be delightful. It's like every major corporate company, it's like, we have to use this for competitive analysis. I mean, like, if the worst case scenario was you were Bloomberg, you'd be okay. Yeah, I think Bloomberg's doing just fine. Yeah. Right. All right, awesome, Mike. Thanks for coming in. Awesome, Mike. Thanks for coming in. Oh, definitely. Thank you.