 All right, Andrew Cortina, welcome to the podcast. Thanks for having me. How's it going, man? Pretty good. Cool. So you are the founder or co-founder of both Venmo and Finn, but you're also a blogger. Yeah. And I wanted to talk to you about a couple of your essays, specifically around work, human dignity. There's one called The Beautiful Struggle, The Beautiful Game, and you end it with, as we give more and more work to software machines i think it's worth asking why we've historically regarded work as fundamental to human dignity and whether or not it's still useful to do so so i found this interesting because you wrote this after selling venmo and then you went and started another company i assume like you could have taken some time off and not worked why do you go back to work yeah i think it's uh i think it's very difficult to change your own idea of dignity um and I don't necessarily even think it's something that you come up with yourself. Like, I've thought a lot about this. And when I was younger, I kind of thought I had an idea of like, okay, like, what is the good? You know, what does it mean to like, be a good person? And just either that was some like objective truth or it was like something I had like come up with myself and I think the older I've gotten and the more fortunate I've been in life the more I kind of recognize that a lot of things that I have are not necessarily things like I have accomplished myself, but things I've received from like teachers or like reading great books from the past 2000 years of Western civilization or the culture that I grew up in, the country that I grew up in. There's like all these things that, you know, you think you can take credit for like a work ethic, right? Like that seems like one of the most, you know, free will determined things, like a strong work ethic, but you probably learned that from some role model. And I don't know. So anyway, to get back to that question, I think I've sort of come to think more and more about, okay, like where does my own conception of dignity come from? Why does that, why would that involve like working and like making things or doing things for other people? And I feel like a little bit less ownership of it. And I guess where i was going with that essay was like okay why would a culture connect dignity with the idea of work um and it's i just think it's been a useful thing to do if you live in a very uncertain world where there's things like you know a horde of locusts can take out the crops for the year and then there's famine. You want to incentivize people to be productive and create a surplus so you can endure those natural catastrophes. For me, growing up in the United States, I think there's a lot of connection between work and entrepreneurship and dignity and um kind of like doing service for others in your country kind of gets back to this like protestant work ethic stuff um and even though i think i can recognize like all these sort of like cultural influences on my own conception of dignity it's really hard to i think convince yourself of something otherwise because you know it's all a ruse and like even i don't know on the one hand you could say it should make it easier to like just change your mind about something yeah but like if it's if it's been inside of you for so long it can just feel like i don't know like i like i just i don't want to go like sit around and do heroin all day like i'm sure that would be like really fun and i don't think there's anything wrong with that but if it would be very tough for me to like not feel bad about that even though i don't think it's a bad thing for somebody to do and i think it's like just as dignified as working on you know an important problem um but i don't know this this stuff gets ingrained pretty deeply i think it's hard to change for somebody especially once they're older like maybe it can change across generations but i think it takes time well you did describe i forget i think it was in that maybe it was in the essay before, these kind of like flow state moments you've had outside of work. You were talking about moving this like bench to the roof of a house. And I thought that was great. That was like a serious contraption. So fun. Yeah. And like, that's a thing. I mean, I think that's actually maybe even more of a default mode in the Bay Area where you see people like entering in this state of like vaguely working and then they just like do projects. Right. But yet, did that compel you like maybe working with your hands and like jumping from one of those one to the next? Because when I'm going through these essays, I'm like, are these just thought experiments or do you just take a month or two and like actually become a Buddhist and see what happens to you? Yeah. No, I've never like there's I have a love hate relationship with Buddhism. I've never like done it myself, but it's very much like my American point of view where it's like I had this thought once, like you know buddhists are not gonna get us off this planet when the sun burns out like it's a very from my sort of you know 50 000 foot view of it it seems like a very like internal focused life is struggling how do i cope with this and like pacify my um you know struggle with the futility of existence and all the pain and suffering that exists in life but i don't see a lot in that sort of philosophy that would motivate a civilization to like do large projects that help lots of people. And I think that's one of the cool things about American culture is like I do see that and like that's kind of what I like about the idea of like dignified work is that, you know, it is a motive to inspire the people who have been a little bit more fortunate to do things that might help people that are less fortunate. I think that's cool. But it sort of presupposes this world where that was necessary. And as that becomes less necessary and there's more abundance and we're less sort of resource constrained. That connection between dignity and like doing useful work maybe becomes dangerous. And like if, you know, maybe not everyone has to be productive, maybe not everyone has the opportunity to be productive. And then are those people sort of like locked out of ever having a dignified life just because we had this useful mechanism for motivating people in the past which is a weird situation uh and like i don't know something i think about a lot so then do you do you not buy the argument that humans are very very good at creating jobs when we when we were talking last week i was talking to you you about people playing truck driving simulator on Twitch and then making money by having fans donate to their truck driving simulator talents. You don't think that's realistic for the future? I think humans are very good at creating jobs. That is... I think that's like an attention economy thing, right? Like watching other people drive trucks. And my guess is they would follow a power law where like a vast majority of people would watch a few people doing it. I think most things follow a power law. And so with respect to like, I don't know, like a lot of the arguments that people make are when we get to the point where nobody has to work anymore, everyone will just do art. I'm not sure. Like it depends on why you're doing art. One of the things I like about like creating things is sharing them with other people. And it's pretty depressing when you're like putting like months of work into something and you put it out there and then nobody enjoys it. Right. So I'm not sure that's the answer to like, what will people do when they don't have to like do manual labor anymore? But I don't know. I think we're probably a long way from the point where nobody has to work anymore. But I don't know, I think we're probably a long way from the point where nobody has to work anymore. But we should be thinking about it. We should be thinking about it. That was how you ended the other essay when you said, like, what would be the last human job? Gratitude. And it still resonates with you. Yeah, I saw that on the prep materials. I was like, oh, yeah, I still like that one. It's always good when you look back on something you wrote a long time ago and you still like it. It doesn't happen that often. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So I'm curious about this failure mode that you're talking about and the beautiful struggle. I'll read the post and then you can um okay you can describe it you might argue that we've already uh that we're already in a sort of failure mode where our ability to assign dignity to arbitrary work and motivate people to work bullshit jobs is more efficient than our ability to allocate labor towards industry that would have greater social benefit like education health care food etc if we're already in this failure mode, it's kind of the worst of all worlds, because not only are we assigning meeting to work that doesn't need to be done, but also we could be redeploying the labor towards efforts that are actually important today. Do you think we're there? Yeah. I mean, I think about this a lot when I go to a supermarket. And I guess, I don't know, when you, I got into the habit of like going to just like, you know, like a bodega in New York for a long time. If I needed toothpaste or something. And I remember I had this experience where it was the first time in years I had gone to like a big supermarket to get toothpaste. And there was like a whole fucking aisle of toothpaste. And I just was like, and I was like vividly remember that I was like writing about this and like trying to like make this into a thing. And I haven't done yet, but I'll probably still use it. It was like I walked into this supermarket and like I had made several attempts to get, oh, I needed a toothbrush. And I made several attempts to like get toothbrushes where like I saw someplace on Valencia Street, but I saw some people like in there. I was like, I can't be near them right now. And then I was like brushing my teeth with my finger and toothpaste for like a couple days and then it was like this Saturday I was like all right I'm gonna do it I'm going to get my toothbrush today and I walked into this Safeway and Bruce Springsteen's Everybody Has a Hungry Heart was on the radio and I went and I asked somebody like where is the toothbrush aisle and it's just, this massive store, and I had to, like, navigate there. And I get to the aisle, and it's just, like, a wall of toothbrushes. And I wanted, like, just a regular, you know, cheap $1 toothbrush. And I was standing there for, like, five minutes, like, trying to find a cheap, shitty toothbrush. And then I just was, like, how have I, like, I'm never going to get this five minutes back. Like, this is the worst possible thing ever. And just like, look at all the garbage in front of me. And think about all like the time and like the people that thought about, you know, this toothbrush versus that toothbrush. And all the effort that went into like that and marketing that stuff and you know somebody then went and stocked all this stuff and like made the decision that this is what should be on the shelf in the store and this is how many toothbrushes they have and i was just like oh my god this is like so wasteful like how like it just wasted like five minutes of my time which i'm pissed off about but like the entire sort of line of production and marketing and distribution that went into like making that moment happen and just a total waste um and it's just like if you if you think about the things that you actually need to survive and the things that you that you value kind of at the end of the day or like when you're reflecting on things right it's such a small piece of commerce that's happening right now and there's just so much garbage put out there because it's like easy to sell um i think yeah well i think there's it's both easy to sell and then people like games, right? So you're entering into this company and this market where you're like, Oh, I can, I can do better than that guy. Yeah. Without stepping back and thinking, do we really need this, you know, toothbrush with like a thousand bristles instead of 900. Yeah. I mean, this is the kind of my thought about the singularity is that it already happened and money is the algorithm that is already controlling all the people and telling them what to do uh the machines have already taken over i think literally from the beginning of money or do you think when money is digitized for people and that's when we see the control to the machines dang yeah i thought oh that's so interesting i thought it was going it was coming through our phones and because we're getting used to intermediating between these like pretty bad devices it's going to be so easy for us to just have the full integration happen as soon as you're interacting with like ai podcast guest ai did you see the chinese ai newscaster no it was on hacker news the other day it was great i mean it's like completely digital newscaster um but that's an interesting thought yeah is that like money and dopamine because that's the one that your phone has access to. Is that like an internal secret Venmo slogan? Money and dopamine? No, no. Money is the API for humans. No. No, that wasn't. Actually, we wanted to kind of like humanize the money and make it less about the, the dollars and cents and more. That's why the note is like such a focal point of them. I was like, what is the thing that you're doing? What does the moment that you're sharing with somebody else? Yeah. Um, and get you thinking about that and not about the money and the money is just hopefully in the background. Hmm. So if the, if this world, like in the background so if this world like the commercial world is overwhelming to you or just whatever too much do you practice some kind of stoicism you have you have nothing in your apartment what does it look like no i mean i have so my girlfriend has a bed i would have just a mattress on the floor but then i'll have like um like stuff that i use like i have a couple of good knives for like cutting vegetables right and like cutting board or like good pots and pans um but then i don't have like tons of other shit and like i'll try to like if i if i not wearing clothes, I'll try to get rid of them. So I don't know. On the one hand, I don't have tons of stuff. But then like for the stuff that I know I'm going to use a lot, I like it to be something good. But I don't really have a, I don't know. I remember this, I had this professor in college, this guy John Ricchetti. And he was, I was studying Shakespeare in London. And he was like the professor from my school that was also like abroad. And like I was studying abroad, he was teaching abroad. And so he would like do stuff with us. And he had this over for Thanksgiving dinner. And he would always be taking us to plays and stuff. and he had this over for Thanksgiving dinner and he would always be taking us to plays and stuff. And I remember one time he told me that, uh, he was just, we were like, you know, drinking a glass of wine or something. And he was like, you know, when I, when I die, I want them to write on my gravestone. He always lived beyond his means. And I was like, that's just, I really respect that sentiment so like I don't know I don't love having tons of stuff but I also have no problem with that kind of like extravagance and like form of expression yeah I mean if that satisfies you and can keep you going year after year I don't know I don't see it happen very often but I don't i don't know i don't see it happen very often but yeah i don't think it but i know for those people i like it that was more like the kind of like host vibe you know i think that he had it wasn't like he was necessarily buying like tons of objects it was like spending money to like entertain or something right well that more falls in line with like spend money on experiences yeah uh but which has again become contentious of like these color factory type things where people like oh my god spend money on artificial manufactured experience for vanity yeah i mean that's also just depressingly commercial or just like travel i don't know like i was in i went to uh cambodia i think a couple years ago you think you were in cambodia i think it was it was someplace like but that's the point it was like the market you know the street market there looked exactly like the street market in Mexico City. And it was just like this the entire time you were there was like you in this relationship to everyone else there as the tourist. And everything was designed to like extract money from you, either in the form of like goods or experiences and like tours and stuff. experiences and like tours and stuff and just to this point now i'd like so much rather go like explore youtube than like be subjected to that kind of like commercial tourism machine well average input average output yeah you know you can i'm sure i've never been to cambodia but uh i'm sure if you go off the beaten path, you can have that experience. And you can have that experience if you just, you know, talk to someone instead of trying to buy T-shirts. Right? Yeah. But it's very, the thing, it's hard to actually talk to someone there and escape that, you know, you as tourist construct. My, the thing that's changed for me in the past i don't know five years is i've gotten really into bike touring oh that's cool bike touring's cool first of all because anyone can do it it's not hard like you can just start with like 10 miles a day stay in hotels but second is that it makes you interesting to everyone around the world which i've found to be super cool yeah that's really cool and you're the least interesting in the places where you like in basically europe right like in like the most traditional touristy places so you're like i don't really like the first of all there's infrastructure to explore all that stuff but it's also like oh i don't even need to go there now instead i can go to vietnam and ride bikes around there that's cool which point people people love you yeah i like that i love biking it's really fun yeah yeah so i mean i could see a world you know i i spent like five months in a road bike touring i didn't want to do it forever yeah but that was that point where i was like oh i am pulled back to work whether that's like constant work for this you know this company or this like long-term project I have no idea but like I want to do something but yeah why do something you know like why like is that natural or is that just because you know of all the things that you've read right like why do we want to do something yeah i don't know it's uh i i was able to scratch the itch of like physical exertion day after day while bike touring um after a while i stopped doing you know a new city every night because you spend so much time thinking about logistics which is really boring and tiring um but even so i think i just came to the conclusion that like the person that i wanted to be was not an adventure blogger yeah full-time yeah but if that's what you want to do it's super cool yeah but yeah i mean i couldn't come to an answer of why do something uh like i guess without infinite money i was like okay i need to do something yeah i mean that's a good but yeah for now but maybe it won't be in the future yeah yeah i mean it's definitely a question mark um do you do you have visions of like you know assuming you don't work on finn forever your post finn life um probably won't be a corporation um i mean it's you know what's cool about what we're working on is it's really hard and interesting um which means because it's a hard problem and there's like financial incentive you get to work with a bunch of other really smart people which is cool um but you know like having to wake up to an alarm every day and like be there's a huge cost to like coordination with a bunch of other people um like everybody has to be awake at roughly the same time um i don't know it's just like do i want to do that i don't know i kind of struggle is real well but the thing is it's not like the alarm is like kind of a i know she thing yeah but um it's so hard to get into like a creative mode where you can like in like i feel like it takes like hours to get to the point where you can like be like productive creatively and so then any sort of like routine and scheduling can just really disrupt that um like if the muse is speaking you want to be able to like write down what the muse is saying uh and be like available to that um which when you're like coordinating like huge chunks of your day around other people's time it can be difficult so um but then on the other hand like the idea of like just you know solo you know writing all the time that seems kind of lonely so i don't know it's a tough yeah i think it cuts both ways but i know so many people that are like oh dude if i just like quit this job then i can do my thing and then they quit their job and they don't yeah and it's hard it's hard really hard to like do something yeah i mean you got to be super disciplined either way like yeah that's it i'm sure there's someone who's like just randomly like well there's a movie idea and it immediately becomes super successful but most people not so much um so so this other essay where you talk about uh technological determinism the emperor has no clothes. There is no Santa Claus and nothing is rocket science. This was a lecture at Cal, right? And I found it really interesting because it kind of ends up dovetailing with a lot of the ideas that you talk about in the context of like, okay, maybe in a future we will not have to work, but as it currently stands, I'm working, you're working, you're looking for jobs, whatever. This is a lecture to undergrad, college kids. In a class where all the other lectures are by business people. About what? Like starting companies and stuff? Yeah, the Silicon Valley sht silicon valley right okay gotcha yeah um and i thought you started it out in like in a very honest way where you said i wasn't there but i just read the these this is like a transcript right yeah yeah um you say i want to preface this talk by warning you that it's quite possible you interpret you'll you will interpret much of this talk as cynicism it is not my intention to be cynical my goal is to treat you with respect by speaking to you honestly without any grand illusions and then you go off right um a paragraph that jumped out to me is you said none of the companies trying to convince you to work for them will mention technological determinism they will confirm what your parents and teachers told you that your work and contribution will be totally unique and significant. Yeah, that's it. I mean, that's a, it's kind of a shitty thing to hear as a college student, I think. I remember like a similar thing I heard from a college professor, like I was having coffee with right after I graduated she said to me like i remember i was like about your age when i realized that i didn't have time in life to do all the things i wanted to do and i was just like uh i like the idea of like you know, the kind of thing I was getting at with a lot of this was I've had a ton of fun working on hard problems with smart people. But I think I see a lot of companies, and I'll go visit college campuses a lot to do recruiting and kind of look at other companies like engineering blogs or I'll hear advertisements on a podcast by some engineering company. And when I graduated from college, and I went to Penn where Wharton is a big part of the culture there, and so it's basically a vocational school. And that infects the entire rest of every other program at Penn. It's like everybody's very focused on... You have like gen ed business class you have to take? I mean but it's just the vibe of Penn it's like I went to NYU and it's like yeah like that yeah yeah so like everybody's like you know what internship am I getting or whatever and when I graduated from school I don't know 2005 um pretty much everyone that did a good job in high school got into a good school the next like step that they were told to do was to go get a job on wall street at an investment bank or at a consulting company like a top four consulting company um and that was just like the track and then you kind of like get married and have kids and you have a stable life. Now I think that those type of people who follow the track that was put in front of them go to get jobs here in Silicon Valley at technology corporations. But, and I think that's fine. Like if your goal is like, if what you value is providing sustenance or like, you know, a stable home environment for like kids or for other people that depend on you, it's probably a great way to do that. But my problem with the way that silicon valley does it is they they've always had this like wall street is the bad guys they're all about making money the silicon valley is about you know building the future and you know like achieving like the american dream and like just being doing no evil and it's really like i don't know like maybe some people get that out of it but i have a problem with you like selling that to other people and telling them that you're going to be their source of meaning and you're going to enable them to be impactful in the world. There's a certain honesty to the Wall Street. It's like, come here, work hard, make a lot of money. Okay, that's the deal. And these technology companies don't really frame it like that. There's a lot of great companies. And they're building things that are i just like there's a lot of great companies there and they're building things that like are making the world better in a lot of ways but i just think they oversell this uh feel good about yourself thing right when they probably don't even have to yeah yeah i don't know i like on one hand i do think that technology usually is a good thing and like many of these companies are working on great stuff and they're also giving jobs to people that are you know great solid income yeah uh and i i have no beef with someone who's like hey i'm just gonna go work at whatever x company make this money you know i'm like providing for a family or parents or or just you know myself which is fine and then like the thing that's been kind of irking me lately is like financial independence being used as this like meta game that gets uh like kind of thrown into the mix with young people many of whom don't really have to earn three hundred thousand dollars a year like they come maybe they come from a family whatever that's like they can support them and and it just makes me sad because i'm like oh you're kind of getting played with this game and because you're like by default this game is like a multi-year game that will encompass like your 20s you might not ever do anything yeah and that makes me sad but yeah there you know there's a lot of time after your 20s to do stuff uh no totally but i just like speaking obviously people do things over the course of their entire lives but i look around at my friends and like yeah you have kids and it's it's very easy and i don't have kids so it's hard for me to say but like it's very easy it seems to make that your whole thing yeah which is i guess also fine yeah i mean that's a i just i i think it's a fine decision if people kind of go into it with open eyes and like fully understand it i feel i just feel like there's like a little bit too much marketing of it in a certain direction that makes me uncomfortable yeah hmm you you said at a point i mean you're quoting some of the uh the advertisements so like the words were craft built for everyone do the i'm just laughing do the most meaningful work of your career. I was like, maybe. But the line that jumped out afterwards that I really liked is when you said, I recognize that the meditative aspect of craft is an excellent way to cope with meaninglessness. Yeah. Which, yeah. Yeah, I mean, it's very meditative to like, one of the things that's awesome about writing software is you can just like go into this, you know, state where you're just, you, you spend 10 hours and you're like, whoa, that was so fun. It's like playing a video game. Right. Or, I mean, I think I'm not like a great drawer, but like I've done some drawing. Like when you're like just, you know, drawing that cup of water right there and like looking at all the different like shadows and contours and just focused on that, you kind of throw out all this verbal analytical parts of your brain. And that is probably the type of stuff that leads you to existential despair. And it can be nice to escape that for a while. And I think like craft has that sort of, you know, like cooking is like that or, you know, writing software is like that. Working with your hands, I think, is like that. Doing Excel, I think, is like that. Like there's a lot of things that are like that working with your hands i think is like that um doing excel i think is like that like there's a lot of things that are like that where you can kind of like just focus in go into that you know all this all the everything else dims and you're just like in the zone yeah um and it's a good escape from a lot of other things, I think. It's also a helpful way to, well, it's an easy way to critique other people without getting to the core of the thing. I used to do it. I mean, I still do it. So one of my buddies. Oh, by saying, like, I'm a craftsman, and then you critique everyone who's not a craftsman? Well, that's one that I've definitely heard. Another one is just critiquing someone else's style without getting to the core of the thing oh yeah uh another one is saying like oh you didn't do this well and i would have done it really well without recognizing that you didn't you didn't do it at all right uh and this person is accomplishing stuff yeah and i think that is not it's not healthy but then on the other hand, some people clearly, like all of these things are dichotomies, right? Yeah. Yeah. It is, I don't know. It is tough. There's a lot of garbage out there, but there's a lot of people trying their best. I don't know. Yeah. I mean, at some point in one of the essays you mentioned, like it's possible that like VR would be a suitable life for, for people, maybe not for you right now, but at some point who knows? Yeah. I mean, my R is pretty good right now is what I like to say. yeah. But like, why is the R better than the VR? I don't know. That seems kind of random. It's all just by the time you're conscious of it, it's all information anyway. So, of it it's all information anyway so theoretically you could have a VR that yeah it's just as good as reality oh yeah I mean VR plus some kind of like chemical combination I could absolutely see being better than real life yeah for for almost everyone yeah if not everyone I could like be a professional basketball player in VR. Never gonna happen. Oh no, totally. In reality. You can be good, yeah, I mean, so if you could somehow slip into the, like really feel like you're LeBron James. Yeah. Like I've never dunked a basketball in my entire life. Yeah, that would probably be pretty sick. It would be awesome. Like, I don't know, in a stadium with 50,000 people cheering you on, I could be down with that. That sounds awesome. Yeah. But again, you're left with this thing. It's like, okay, after I've consumed every level of the VR game. Yeah. Maybe. Or maybe it's just life. There's this good Alan Watts thing I heard where he was talking about being omnipotent and living forever. And he was like, you know, you would end omniscient. And he was like, yeah, you know, that would be cool for a while, but then you'd probably get bored and you start doing these simulations where you're like, okay, like like I'm going to make this game where I like limit my omnipotence in some way and you know, just, it'll make it a little bit more fun. And then you kind of get bored of that game and you realize like, well, like I always know that at the, like after the game is over, I'm omniscient and I live forever. And so it lowers the stakes a little bit. And so then you start taking away the fact that you know it's a game. And you return to this state of the struggle of limited, finite life. And it was just like, he kind of like got there from, of course that's what you would do if you live forever and where I'm left in. Right. It's exactly this. It traps you. I mean, do you ever lucid dream? Not really. I have the thing where I become conscious but can't move when right before you wake up which i don't like yeah no i wish i lucid dreamed instead i haven't had your experience but i've definitely lucid dreamed quite a bit and my problem is exactly what you're describing usually what happens is something's happening and then I predict what will happen in the dream and then it happens. And then it just happens over and over and over again until you realize you're in complete control of the dream and then you wake up. Yeah. And that's it. Yeah. Just like you, I rapidly ruined the entire thing. Yeah. Um, and you, could you, uh, just so people understand, we did a podcast with, um Could you, just so people understand, we did a podcast with Tim Urban, Wait But Why. Cool. He's cool, yeah. And he talks about this technological determinism as the human colossus. It's basically the same concept. Yeah. It's like, this ball is rolling, this product will be made. You even say, if Venmo, if not Venmo, something else would have happened. For sure. In that same space. How do you define technological determinism? Yeah, I mean, the way I talked about it in that talk was like a little bit, I was talking more about a corollary, like technological determinism, I think is just the society as a product of technology or something. as a product of technology or something. But the kind of thing that I think about a lot as a corollary of that is that I think evolution is like this and technology is like this where things that are efficient and productive will eventually be created out of necessity because, you know, they make life more successful. Um, but if you kind of like follow that to its end, you get into this place where it's like, okay, well, like if everything useful will necessarily be invented by somebody out of, out of need, like,, why should I work on anything, right? Like, if any possible useful thing I could come up with, somebody else is going to come up with because it's useful. So, like, it's not that unique or interesting. So maybe I should just do, like, all the crazy useless stuff in order to try to rescue my free will basically um now the problem with that is if everybody thought that nothing useful right would ever get done um so it kind of like presupposes that it's a like you know only a few people realize that i guess um but i don't know that's kind of how i think about technological determinism is idea like yeah useful stuff will be built technology is moving forward at this pace it's kind of like an unstoppable force yeah and as much as like people you know yearn for the good old days or the you know portland life of know, making your own cottage cheese or whatever. You're not going to, somebody's going to keep technology moving forward. So it's tough to fight against it. And you use JFK's moral argument. Yeah, that JFK speech from, it was a, he gave this talk at Rice talking about the space program and he was talking about like why like why are we going to space cost a ton of money yeah um he says some awesome stuff in there one he's like why does rice play texas and he's like comparing the space race to a football game which i think is hilarious. But I had to step back because that was the one that I was like, I don't know the college football rankings well enough. And I was like, oh, it's because Texas is amazing and Rice is like, okay. Right? That's the argument? Well, I just think it's... Why do anything? Why does one college play another college at all? Why is there a football game? Because it's fun and like competition is interesting um and so like that's kind of like one angle of it um which is like i think really probably the better argument um or like maybe the more sorry that that may be like the more truthful argument he then gives this other argument, which is if we don't do this space exploration thing, somebody else will. And right now that somebody else is Russia and we don't know their motives. And, you know, space technology, like all other technology, it has no morals of its own. And so it's sort of like up to the good people, the more moral people who like, if you're in the US, that's you, presumably, if you're JFK's audience. It's up to the good people to like build the powerful technology first so that they can fight back against the bad people who also will eventually build that technology. And I think that was just a really interesting argument. You can justify a lot of things with that argument, and who's to say that once you build the technology, what you'll use it for? But that was a pretty compelling argument i thought i mean it's the same one that open ai is using right now yeah and most ai researchers yeah so which is i mean at some point we should talk about what you're currently working on right so let's do it so what's um fin is within the ai sphere yeah we're so we'd like to call it aai artificial artificial intelligence um when we started the company there was like all this so finn it's a personal assistant service um and so you can like email us text us call us whatever send us work like you would send an executive assistant um and when we started there was like all this excitement about like alexa and google home and all these pure software ai natural language processing things which have very good um uh speech to text kind of natural language processing um and are pretty good at understanding like most sentences that you would say to them, but they're not really capable of being your full-time assistant. And so our thought was, well, these people are saying this is going to be like the AI from 2001 Space Odyssey or like Jarvis from Iron Man. And we're like, it's nowhere even close to that. But we want those things. So why don't we try to build that today and hack it by having a system where you interact with it just like that. But instead of trying to build it with pure software, which if Google can't do, obviously it's not possible. We'll just have a team of people on the back end. But do it a little bit more like Uber, where it's a network of people providing the service, they're enabled by technology, like Uber, not going to be possible without GPS. So there are certain like technological improvements that you can take advantage of to like enable this distributed workforce to provide a new kind of service that wasn't really possible in the past. And we thought it'd be cool to do that for personal assistance type stuff and just take all these sort of mundane digital chores that you don't want to do yourself, but that you're probably doing right now because there's like okay tools to do them. And because there's like okay tools to do them, not many people have assistance anymore. And so they're doing them themselves but it's really like not an efficient use of your time for instance if you're some executive or whatever to be like scheduling five hours of meetings every week right like and like you know i guess like venture capitalists they you know would typically have somebody scheduling their meetings but there's a lot of other um people where they don't have an assistant and they're they're doing stuff like that at work or maybe they're just doing stuff at home like you know dealing with service providers and comcast and like a plumber and if you're spending three hours of doing that a week which is like for a lot of people they probably are and you have kids that's like three hours that you're not spending with your kids and if you ask somebody like which one would you rather do go help your kid with their homework or like play with them for three hours or be figuring out something with your health insurance like clearly people are going to choose to spend time with their kids the sort of historical problem is you can't really get an assistant for three hours per week. It's, it's pretty tricky to figure out how to do it. I mean, there are people that tell you, you can do that. It's pretty hard to do that. Um, to get somebody good, you typically have to buy in chunks of 40 hours per week, um, or just do like tons of work to figure out, like vet somebody, find people on Upwork or whatever it is, like some remote VA. And then if that person disappears, you have to do the whole thing again. There's just like a huge amount of cost involved in like trying to piecemeal it together. Um, so we thought like, well, okay, like why don't we kind of like do all that work to like find good people, train them, build it. So it's like a kind of like consistent and reliable experience. Remember all the sort of like nuances and preferences about you so that when turnover and nutrition does happen, you're shielded from that and like the entity, like remembers your preferences around dentist appointments or whatever. Right. Um, you don't want to have to tell you know if you if you're hiring a new assistant every year because they're turning over it's not really useful to have a that person do your dentist thing because you only do that once a year and you have to like retrain them on the entire thing every time um so we've kind of taken some uh a group of people that we have trained them, give them tools for collaboration, knowledge sharing, workflow management, process management, and built this system where like everything that any one of them learns about you or about the world, like how to book Hamilton tickets or like how to do one medical, right. And like encode that in our system and we can actually be a lot more efficient at it than a single person on their own could be and we can give it to you in a much more incremental way where you don't have to buy in blocks of 40 hours. Got it. And so there are many questions around will Finn ever, so Ryan Hoover from Product Hunt asks when, if ever, will Finn task completion be 100% AI driven? Yeah. I mean, well, if the day that happens, nobody has to work anymore, right? Because if Finn is a black box open-ended system, right? Like we will do any work that you send us, right? So the day that Finn can do all work, no human has to work again. And then we'll all go to the beach and drink pina coladas and kick it. We're at the beginning of the podcast. Yeah. That'll be great. So our sort of bet is while there is any human work to be done, let's build the system that is the best at doing human work. And we'll use software to give our humans leverage and hopefully make them far more productive than somebody who's not part of our network or doesn't have access to our tools and knowledge base. And for the decades to come, while humans still have to work, we want to be the best place to do all that work. Are all these people in the Bay? Are they all over the world? No, no. Most of our people over at Nell are in Phoenix. Oh, okay. Yeah. Hmm. What's been the hardest part and the biggest difference between starting Finn versus Venmo? I mean, with Venmomo it was always really difficult to raise money because it was a very expensive business to run and it had to be like a huge like venmo is just now starting to like start to monetize yeah um with and the method for that is to enable all these consumers to pay businesses because Venmo doesn't make money when you pay your friends back. And so that was a very, very long-term bet on a certain way to make money. And because we were never making any money and had to deal with all these SEC laws and things like that, it was always very difficult to raise money, and we had to use money for all these things that were not really making the product better. So that was a kind of thing that made Venmo hard. And also it was the first company of any size that I worked on, so first time managing people. So there were lots of challenges like that. With Finn, on the other hand um i like have a little bit more experience managing people so that part like is somewhat easier or you know at least i have like some experience and knowledge of doing it in the past um and we have a business model um we're both like kind of like previous entrepreneurs and had like social capital. So that made it a little bit easier to raise money. And then the hard, the hardest thing about Finn is just complexity. It's like the exact opposite of any, of like the perfect YC company. Whereas like the YC company, you pick one thing or like any, you know, like a Silicon Valley company, you pick like one small thing, you get really good at doing that thing you get by doing tons and tons of reps on it. And then if you get a bunch of people using that, then maybe you kind of like expand outward and like add on like another little thing and then get really good at that. With Finn, we're competing with a full-time human assistant and a full-time human assistant will just do whatever you ask them it's like you hire a human assistant and he's like hey can you um help me find a time to meet with sam next week and book me flights to phoenix yeah and then the person says like well i don't book flights so you're gonna have to do that yourself but i I'll, I'll schedule the meeting like that. If we built that, we just wouldn't be competitive with a human assistant. So we kind of took into this, we have to be able to do anything, um, which is really hard. Um, one, it's just hard to like, kind of market and like explain to people what we do. Cause it's like, it's not like we do one thing. We just do whatever. The other thing is it's really hard to understand. Well, the second thing, it's really hard to just build tools that do anything that are both very general and also pretty productive and easy for people to learn. So it's hard to build the tools for our team that's doing all this work. And then probably one of the most challenging things is measurement. And we spend a huge amount of time on measurement, trying to understand things like, okay, who's doing a good job on our team and who's not? Who needs help? Where do they need help? Who's good at which specific type of task where is all the time going why is this thing you know this one type of task greater variance than another type of task in terms of like how long it typically takes somebody our team to do it how do we categorize like different groups of customers and understand what they would want, what they would demand? We have to also predict for any given week of the year, for any given day of the week, for any given hour of the day, how much customer demand is there going to be? Because we're like stocking labor, basically. And if we're undersupplied then people have to wait too long for work to get done for oversupply then we're just like burning money yep and then the other thing is really hard that it the measurement is just hard because it's a black box system and so we have a heterogeneous set of people doing the work who have very different tenures, which is another big thing that affects how well they do their work, different innate skill sets, and then a very heterogeneous set of customers and a very heterogeneous set of types of tasks that we do. And so it can be really hard to say, we released a new thing last week. Is it making the system better or worse? To try to find an apples-to-apples trend line where you can say, okay, here is the impact of that thing. You have to slice on so many dimensions to try to get to a data set that can tell you if any of the work that you did was actually good or bad um so it's just really complicated it feels like i don't know like trying you know to do measurement in like macro economics where there's just like a billion different dimensions and you're like constantly like oh well we have to like normalize for this and normalize for that um how much is usage correlated with what you market that finn can do um i think today your demand for finn is much more a function of you than of our marketing so to get you to realize that it's more a matter of just kind of making sure you know the the basics of the system it's helpful like talk to you about it because it's like very difficult to put in front of you and like it's really helpful like ask questions about like what your needs are and then basically just tell you like we can do all those things but we can't like know a priori what your needs are and then like put those on a page for you right um so there's a certain sense where like talking to you for a little bit helps us like realize your full potential as a customer but say you're the type of person that needs five hours of help per week we're not going to invent another like five hours of work that we can do for you like so it's a little bit different than like a media business in that sense where we could probably come up with another five hours of like TV that you would be entertained by even if you were only currently spending five hours already yeah but it's not like as soon as you say finn will book flights for you everyone uses finn to book flights well the people that need a flight book but we're not going to convince somebody that doesn't need a flight to book a flight right of course um so it's it's very much a function of like each individual customer like what they'll find gotcha so do you do you ever have a moment when you talked about your lucas venmo ads do you ever have a moment where you're like i want to do this again i want to do the same thing i want to do it for fun and like get these ads everywhere i i don't like to do like the you know do a redo like that i mean the lucas ads were really these were the subways ads that we did uh yeah for for Venmo in New York that was really fun the I don't think we would do something like that um because that was a the market for that was a little bit different where it's like every person could use Venmo you know when that when those ads went up in New York with Finn it's like it's not a product for every person right now the thing i liked about lucas was that it was not really it was like in the place where you would see an ad but it wasn't actually really an ad it was more of like a non-sequitur yeah it's like confusing stickers all over the subway yeah and so i like the idea and i've done this like with stuff on my website where like you know like my about me is like not really an about me it's like partly fictional and like really long and like just not it's you look in like a place where you're expecting to see one thing yeah and then you see something that doesn't really belong there but your conversion rates bro yeah well yeah um but i like that and so like there's something about that and thinking about okay what would that be for finn um you know it could be like you know be showing up at some conference and like doing some crazy shit that was like not what we were supposed to be there to do. I think that would be fun. But I'm sure it would be different than like what worked for Venmo than what we would do for Fin. So Spencer Clark asked, how did you and your co-founder decide to sell Venmo or why? Well, one, it was the options were shut down Venmo forever or sell it. So that was like a pretty easy decision. The reasons why, I mean, what's probably more interesting is to talk about like, why was Braintree a good match for Venmo? So one, obviously like Bill Reddy, who was the CEO of Braintree, only person that kind of like got it and was willing to like fund the vision of Venmo and like build up this consumer base, um, for the sake of having a bunch of people who were wired up and comfortable using payments on their phone so that they could eventually pay businesses. so that they could eventually pay businesses. He was particularly, I think, amenable to Venmo because Braintree is another company similar to Stripe where they do credit card processing for all these different businesses. And the margins on credit card processing are really thin for somebody like Braintree or like Stripe. But for PayPal, they're actually awesome because PayPal is basically doing a ton of transactions that come from bank accounts and then charging a credit card processing fee. So instead of making five basis points, PayPal is making 2% or something. So it really gives you many, many more multiples on your margins if you're in that payment processing business. And so what Bill saw was like, okay, like Venmo could help Braintree go from this like very, very, very thin margin business to like what's still pretty thin margins by like any standard, but like still many multiples on what they had. So that was kind of why he thought it was a good fit. And the teams kind of why he thought it was a good fit and the teams kind of meshed well um and they were well capitalized and had like a source of revenue and could kind of like balance out all this venmo that was basically just dumping into user acquisition wiring up people's bank accounts with the hopes that one day we could somehow convince merchants to accept right as a form of payment so it just made a lot of sense, one, for Venmo to be part of Braintree, because it was the sort of matching halves. And then the same thing, when PayPal acquired Braintree, I think PayPal was one of the few people that could understand the value of Venmo, because it's basically the same exact playbook as PayPal. Understand the long-term investment it takes. I mean, I'm sure it's probably been over a billion-dollar investment now to wire up all these bank accounts and subsidize all the peer-to-peer transactions with the hopes of someday turning on payments to the merchant network, which is now finally happening. And my guess is we'll probably work out pretty well for PayPal. But it would be very difficult, I think, for a private financier to kind of accept the billion-dollar dream, question mark. So it just made sense. Cool cool so yeah because that how long ago was that i think 2013 yeah it was a while ago yeah yeah uh the last thing i want to talk about was that charlie kaufman speech oh man it's so good everyone anybody who's like listening to this should go you should link to that speech charlie kaufman's incredible i'd never heard him speak before i think that's like one of the only times he did that oh okay yeah um yeah that was great did you transcribe that on your own just like no i i think i found either the youtube transcription and cleaned it up or it might have been on bafta's website somewhere okay but I kind of pasted the transcription on my site because I wanted to like add emphasis in certain areas because it's long and I thought it might be helpful to have like some highlights in there um but yeah I don't know if you want to like say what this speech is or like give people some context but it's it's awesome man well so Charlie Kaufman's a screenwriter, being John Malkovich, many other movies. Yep. And basically the setup is talking about, I mean, I can just, I can pull it out right here. So he talks for a while and then he goes into this moment of self-reflection on the talk to the audience about his own talk where he says, what I'm trying to express, what I'd like to express is the notion that by being honest, thoughtful and aware of the existence of other living beings, a change can begin to happen in how we think of ourselves in the world and ourselves in the world. So it was awesome. Yeah. I mean, there's so much in there that's so good. It's really one of the best things I've come across in many years. It's really inspiring. He talks a lot about sort of his motives, what he's trying to do in film and just making things. in film and just making things. And I think he kind of, in that, it gives context for a lot of the stuff he's seen in his films where he's reacting to this mechanization of human relations that kind of alienate us from each other mechanization of human relations. They kind of alienate us from each other and prevent authentic communication. And he points to that in a lot of problems that he sees in film with people just like mechanizing and putting out more of the same shit. That's just copying something else and not doing anything new um but i think in a lot of the work that he does you can see he sees that also in our like daily interactions with other people or like in our relationships with even like family and friends and stuff it's very easy to just fall into a routine and like just saying the thing that is automatic and he gives this part there's this part in that speech where he talks about he's running in his neighborhood and he passes this guy running and the guy and and he's uh he's running down the hill and this guy is running up a hill and the guy's like oh sure it's all it's all downhill that way and he laughs and he's like oh that was a good that was a good one i like that and then he passes the guy again same spot and the guy same exact thing says it he's like oh that's kind of interesting i guess maybe like he forgot he said to me another it happens another time same spot uh he's like i guess he just says that every time he sees somebody here and he's like wasn't really even paying attention to me and then he passes him like and he like charlie kaufman's going uphill and the other guy's going downhill but he still says oh sure it's all downhill that way and it's like it has no context or like recognition or acknowledgement of like the state of the actual world it's just this automatic thing to say um and i think i don't know he points it out in it can happen to our work and can happen to our relationships with other people. And, um, I don't know. I, I found that really poignant. It was so great. And it, especially in the context of a type of work that I think most people regard as very creative. Yeah. He's like, he goes into craft in the same way that you talk about it. He's like, Oh, I don't think he says the name of the movie but he's like i saw this trailer for this movie that's going to come out it's beautiful i'm sure it's going to be perfectly done yeah but it's just going to be totally mediocre yeah not really accomplish anything yeah and so yeah i think like the first of all thanks for posting and i had i had not seen it before but also i was just curious about like how you're you're trying to personally apply this idea because it's obvious based on all your highlights that you cared about it a lot yeah i mean i really feel deeply about like there's a lot of important stuff in there um but i i don't i just i don't like the idea this is a little bit against that thing i was saying at berkeley was there's a track that you know has been laid out for everybody and just like the certain way of doing things like you can it's very easy to just like do the automatic next thing without thinking about it and then wake up 50 years later and realize you haven't thought for yourself at all and not to say that it's necessarily bad to, I'm probably like a little bit more generous on this than Charlie Kaufman would be. I don't think it's necessarily bad to like do something that other people are doing or like that has been done before. If you decide that that is like the thing that you want to spend time doing or that's going to like facilitate some other thing that you want to do what's tragic to me is that there's a lot of people who don't even like understand that they're in this automatic mode and just like following the next thing and like copying the thing that somebody else did or somebody doing the thing that somebody told them to do and the idea of like somebody like that you know waking up 50 years later and be like wow i didn't want to do any of that or just never realizing and having that thought at all it's just it's sad um so i try to spend a lot of time thinking about, okay, how do I be intentional? Am I doing the thing that I want to do? Is it going to be different in some way than something else? Because I do like trying to do something differently than the way other people would do it. So I think about that a lot. But it's kind of a rabbit hole. And it's kind of a rabbit hole. And you can spend a lot of time thinking about that and realize that it's pretty hard to do and maybe not possible. Yeah. And you can fall into a new kind of trap, which is competitive mindfulness, which I find so funny. Yes. Because I can meditate longer than you can. Yeah. All right, dude. So if someone wants to talk to you online or try out Finn, what should they do? So try out Finn. We have a code for, you know, somebody asked, like, when's Finn going to be free? It's not going to be free, but you get $100 credit if you sign up at finn.com slash YC. So you could just try it out there. And then if you want to find me online cortina with a k on twitter or cortina.nyc is where i post all my writing awesome thanks man thank you you