 So today we have Lauren McCarthy. She is an artist based in LA. Could you give us a quick background? Sure. I'm an artist based in LA. I'm an assistant professor here at UCLA Design Media Arts. But my art is basically thinking about what are the systems we use to be a person and interact with other people. And will technology save all of our problems or cause many more? Do you have an answer? Yes. So at the footer of your website on your About page, you wrote, I make art about what confuses me. Is that still true? Is your website old? Oh, yeah, no, it's definitely true. The main thing that confuses me is just people. All of them. So I make art about people and about, you know, the sort of expectations we have of each other or the rituals and the patterns and the strange things we do when we're together or alone. Hmm. And so I guess to give people some context, can you just like reference one of your projects that is about people? Sure. Yeah. So maybe to give an example, I did a project called Social Turkers a few years ago, and I was trying to see if I could fix my non-existent dating life. So I made this system where I went on a series of blind dates with people that I met on the Internet, and then I sort of discreetly streamed the video of the date to the web, and then I paid people through a service called Amazon Mechanical Turk small amounts of money to watch the date and try and give me instructions for what to say or do to see if that they might be better at kind of coaching me or directing me through this, this date. And was that successful for you? Yeah, to some extent, maybe less successful than I had hoped, but also less successful than I had feared. Yeah, the thing that it did really was make, I guess one thing I'm always trying to do without getting too philosophical here is understand like what are these limits we put on ourselves? And so for me to get these instructions, oh yeah, so they would come as like text messages and I have to do them or say them immediately. And so just having to do these things and not being totally in control felt really uncomfortable at first, but then also like started to become really natural. But the thing that made me realize was like I could say or do things that I felt like, oh, that's not me, or that's totally weird of me to do. And then the date would not act like it was such a strange thing to say or do. And so the sky didn't fall. And so I realized what a narrow box I normally hold my idea of myself in. And so what that project was really successful in doing was just getting me like kind of loosen up my identity, I guess, in some way. They had no idea that this was going on while you were doing it? They didn't. And that was part, you know, I didn't, I started out with these where I would tell them at the beginning of the date. Because that, you know, it wasn't supposed to be at this secret thing. the date um because that you know it wasn't supposed to be at this secret thing but the problem was that the whole date would be um just talking about the project and about the issues around it and surveillance and art and which was great but it didn't feel like a first date then it was just them quizzing me about my art practice and so I switched to like telling them at the end or after the fact just to try and get a more get this feeling that like this is this thing we all do we don't talk about it yeah we're doing it and so was it um just really eye-opening for you to give up control and let other people like basically do the date for you in a way that like made you more comfortable with other people over time or was it just that individual experience that was just different? Yeah, no, I think it did have some lasting effect where I sort of felt a looseness that came from that project. Like almost by giving up control, I started to feel more freedom in some way. But the other weird effect was that like immediately after the project, I had gotten really used to the system that like for the first few dates, I felt really like unsure about how to make a decision. Like, you know, like, can I kiss you? Or like, do you want to come home with like, or do you want to have a second date? I was just like, uh, I don't know how to determine those things anymore. Oh my God. Like, have you wanted to jump on the other side and like control other people? Yeah, I don't know, less so. I have less of a, maybe my controlling of other people is just by setting up these situations and asking if they'll participate. I was wondering with like all these projects, if you're just attracting more people like you to run the date for you, that's the problem. I get all these socially inept people as my, as my Turkers, huh? Maybe. I don't know. It is interesting though, with a lot of these projects where there's different roles, I talked to someone and, um, they immediately are like, oh, I want to be this on this side of it it or I want to be on that other side of it or I want to do neither of those things. And for every person, it's like really clear in their head but different. That's so crazy. And so was there a moment like before all this, like the art projects got started, the programming got started, that you recognized that you were having difficulty interacting with people? Oh, yeah, definitely. And so then, like, throughout your, did you study art in college? Yeah, I studied computer science and art. And I, maybe the, maybe this is the source of all my problems, but I went to MIT where, like, I feel like the one thing I didn't learn was any social skills. And so I never felt that inadequate in college. It was immediately afterwards where I was like, oh, wow, all these people know how to interact with each other. When was I supposed to get that one? So I was like, well, what can I do? I can kind of hack things, I guess. I can build software. Maybe that would help. But it seems like you're in this interesting place in between, right? Because you also had the your javascript thing which was uh p5 js which is like about opening up art and technology as a whole right so they're obviously like larger issues you're trying to tackle as well or is that just because you found that like you went to mit so you were given the aptitude to get into programming and like make art and you felt that people couldn't do it um yeah no I think it's uh so I have this feeling where I don't I think part of my social anxiety or awkwardness comes from just a feeling of like I just don't know how to fit into a lot of situations and so another place where there's a big problem with people fitting in or feeling welcome is in tech in general. And I think that was what really got me interested in working on this P5JS project. And not just tech, but open source is even worse in terms of the gender breakdown or minorities that are involved. And so I was just trying to see what would it look like if the number one goal of this project was to build a space where people feel welcome and use that as a starting point, not like, oh, we built this cool tool and then, oh like can we get some more uh you know different people in here after the fact um and yeah so that's you know i like javascript i like building this tool but that is the the core for me it's like can we make a space where like people just feel comfortable being there even if they don't know yet how to code or they don't know how they fit in or they don't know the other people. And is that working? Like what about this program, this particular, like, I mean it's, it's an entire like framework, right? For building stuff. What about it is attracting those people? I think it's part of it is the design. So if we have that core value of like, we want to support, you know, diversity and different points of view from the get-go, part of that goes into design decisions about the tool itself, like trying to make the language itself understandable, the functions in the library, like putting a really heavy emphasis on documentation, so it's not this barrier where you have to figure it out. It's like someone has actually helped, wants you to learn. And also actually doing things behind the scenes. So taking some tradeoffs in the code, like under the hood, to make it easier for people that are not like expert developers to still be contributors to that code base. And so adding a lot more commenting in there and just doing things in slightly less obscure ways. That's really cool. I never thought about that, just opening up exactly how you comment to make it better for people to jump in and be open source contributors. I always thought about it as much more end consumer facing, like, I guess, processing. And so has this netted like different kinds of projects? Yeah, I think so. I mean, the user base is so much broader, and we really try to highlight that. So that's the other piece of it is like actively doing events or curating homepage sketches or galleries or doing outreach and working with specific groups and being like, well, what does it mean in your context? What are the useful examples? Or maybe we need to translate this all to Spanish. And then what are the relevant examples or concepts there? Do we need to change the metaphors we're using to teach instead of assuming that you use the same object that we're talking about um so yeah the projects are just they reflect you know a wider range of people and like different ideas and are they like chiefly art projects or or what mainly um but i think it's being used in a lot of other contexts too, like visualization stuff. I see it like in news and like blog posts kind of things as showing data or making some point. Yeah, it's, I think, wider than just art. Okay. For sure. So one thing that I did want to talk to you about was the Facebook mood manipulator. Are you still actively working on that? Is that existing in the world still? It exists. I don't think it works so well. Facebook kind of changes their underlying infrastructure, uh, very regularly. Okay. So, so then just explain how it worked in the past. Yeah. Um, so it, it actually, I made it in response to this news in like 2014 or something like that, where it was like, oh, Facebook did this study about mood manipulation where they were showing people either positive or more negative content and then showing that this would cause the person themselves to make more positive or negative posts with the conclusion that they can actually influence your mood based on what they show you in your feed. And the outcry was all about the procedure and like, you didn't get the proper permission. Like, I can't believe Facebook is experimenting on us, which is like a whole different conversation. But I was more interested in like this question of like, wait, but they can like control our moods. Like, I don't have time to be mad about them experimenting right now. Like, what about this issue? So the Facebook mood manipulator was this Facebook add-on you could get that basically would give you this interface that you could, it had a few metrics like positive, negative, but also like optimistic, pessimistic I think, or open, or private, something like that. I forget exactly now the... And then how would it actually interact with the interface? Yeah, and so you get to select how much of these things you want to feel in a given day, like when you wake up, and then it filters your posts accordingly. So it was using this method called linguistic inquiry word count or a LUKE, L-I-W-E-C, that was actually the same method that the Facebook mood manipulation study used. And it's pretty like straightforward. It's basically just looking at the words in a post and trying to tag them with different different um qualifiers you know this is a positive word or this is a pronoun and then all of these different you know end results like openness or hopefulness are based on what percentage of the words are in this category or that category. So you just like add it up like an equation. Have you thought about doing a version two, like post 2016 election to see the other side of Facebook? Yeah, I actually, I think I've seen some things like that, like to see outside the echo chamber. I wonder what it would be, what would be the appropriate add on now? Because I think now people are so used to that idea. Like, of course they're manipulating my mood of course yeah you know they're filtering out certain things or targeting me it also seems difficult given like how much like app and like mobile browser traffic they have right now i guess i mean i don't know how much it's changed since 2014 but i imagine it's gone up um which is super difficult. And so have you done many other extensions? A few. So one that comes to mind is this extension for Google Hangouts that I made with Kyle McDonald. It was called Us Plus, which is kind of a play on Google Plus. And the idea is that you would install it in your Hangout, and it would measure what you would do speech to text and like measure the words that you're saying and analyze them and then it would also analyze your facial expression and it would try to kind of optimize your conversation and then give like feedback individually so like I might be it might notice that I'm like being much more negative or pessimistic than my conversation partner. And so it showed me an image like stop being such a downer or something like that. Or my favorite feature was if you are talking a lot more than the other person, it would just auto mute you. You've been auto muted for talking too much until there was more of a balance. To me, it's so surprising that you like you're the one building these tools when you seem to have like a very high eq for other people maybe you don't feel that way though uh yeah i'm not sure what the answer is i feel like i am very sensitive to other people but then i just like my output i'm always feel like lost like i'm like okay this person like I'm supposed to say something reassuring or like you know make this situation comfortable right now like but what what no what do I say I think more people have that feeling than you think yeah because because there was that also that like box project you guys made right um what was that one called like the it would tell someone what to do on their date like at a certain point in time. Oh, the ConversaCube. These ones. Is that what you're talking about? It was green. This is a special version we made for our wedding. So they were silver to match the color theme. This was a project I did a while ago. It was called ConversaCube and it's just like a centerpiece for conversation. And it would kind of sit in the middle of your table and detect like who was talking and then try to give you just single one or two word cues of what to do or actually what to say or talk about. Was it parsing the conversation or was it just like throwing random stuff out? Yeah, it was listening to the conversation. And I can't go into the specifics of that one. I mean, a lot of these projects are sort of working with people's kind of desire to buy into things. And not in a superficial way. It's like you give someone a product and you tell them it does something. And they really start to, they kind of want to believe it or they, so like with the US Plus project, I was talking to this reporter and we were doing the interview over US Plus and she was, you know, towards the end and she's kind of like, well, you know, this is great, but like, is this really working? These feel sort of random, like how smart is this thing and i was about to explain how like yeah you know speech to text is not that great and the analysis we're using is actually supposed to be for longer bits of task whatever um but then at that moment it's like it's like stop being so doubtful or something and she was like oh my god okay i'm gonna go read the article right now thank you so it's like we remember these moments where it works for us and we forget more often the times where it just doesn't work are the the physical objects more effective or less effective than the like the plugins or the websites or uh i think they're more effective in the sense that like it's amazing what a physical object can do to just give people like an excuse and so that was part of the thinking with the ConversaCube because it was like, people are really just starting to get smartphones, or I've heard it to be more widespread, and I was like, what about this thing that we're all carrying these objects around? That's interesting, what does that mean? So yeah, I think having an object, people are instantly ready to just sort of act differently or put aside some of their normal patterns and see what this thing does in the space. The apps and extensions are nice, though, because it means I don't have to get objects to people. It's like anyone can download it, and the reach is so much wider. And what I really like about it is this question of like, okay, so you saw the little video trailer, and maybe you feel upset or excited or confused. But then you could just click download and do you. And if you do, then how do you use this app and why? You really have the choice. It's not just something you see and muse about. It's a real choice in front of you. Because I was wondering how often you get pulled toward like commercial interest with these projects. Because I think like we were talking before we started recording about people asking you to like make a startup or, or misunderstanding the project as a startup. Do you ever feel like, I mean, the cube is a perfect example, like to the desire to do like a giant kickstarter for something like that yeah sometimes i i did this i also had this like happiness hat that would detect if you're smiling and then like stab you in the back of the head until uh you started smiling again to train your brain and that one like people were really like writing me asking to buy them um i guess for me it's it's um just like how I know how much, I've seen friends do Kickstarters, I know how much time goes into just like figuring out manufacturing and production and everything, and that's not where I want to spend my time particularly. So I think like the software gets to that point of mass distribution. So yeah, so one thing that i am curious about is like how people do consume and even buy digital art or digital media in general um i know that like you you make you know websites and apps and stuff and not everything's physical so it's like kind of hard to sell but where do you see that going as far as like people consuming and purchasing it? Yeah, it's interesting because I don't think anyone has found the ideal model yet. I know a few artists that have found something that works for them. Like they have a specific contract they use for selling a website or transferring ownership of something, but there's not like one universal way of dealing with it in the way that there is with selling a painting or something like that or selling a sculpture. And there's also the trickiness of just like, if I sell you a digital file, is there anything wrong with just making a copy and giving it to someone else? Is there some difference between the copy of a file or the original? Or if I sell you an app and the app no longer works with your current version of your phone, is that still an interesting thing to own? Right, are you now the project manager forever? Right, right, right. So people have different ways around this. Sometimes there's contracts for how long you maintain something. But yeah, so for me, I don't, the only context in which I've kind of sold an app before, well, usually it's free because I'm just interested in people trying it. That's not where I'm trying to make money. But one time I made this app that a lot of people, it got to the front page of Reddit and so all these people started downloading it and I hadn't really built the server for that use case. I was expecting maybe a thousand people at most. And so I needed people to just stop downloading so fast so I just added a price. And then a few hours later I felt like, oh, I feel bad. I just want this to be free but I in that time I made like a few thousand dollars and I was like oh well that's works yeah did you refund everyone did you keep it no I just I think you know you bought it during that one window when it wasn't free like the bad luck window yeah uh that's really great that's like the exact inversion of almost every other company um it's interesting because i was wondering about like why there aren't more digital artists i know there are like there are obviously a lot of them but like more prolific more like really well known and i was wondering if that like that issue around selling and buying stuff is actually a part of it because like you know if you're a painter if you're the rare combination of someone who's a painter who also has some like business savvy and can sell stuff like you can survive whereas like someone like you like you you teach at ucla which is awesome but like that's not solely your art right and yeah i'm just curious like what what like innovative models artists are trying to like push on right now to try and create that stuff or if you think that like maybe everyone becomes artists and this is just like the side thing for lots of people yeah it's um i think part of the the difficulty comes out of just like the market around buying selling art is very conservative because you are agreeing that this particular object has this value that you know and it's all kind of consensus based so there it's very risk adverse in the first place so anything digital is like first of all just like new and not necessarily like we've established this as art and it's okay and then also like how do you own it and how do you keep it and there's all those questions but I've seen like different models you know um there's you know things like electric objects where you can uh which is a platform for people to distribute images and they've tried like a number of different subscription or selling models um i was talking with uh someone at a company recently where they are trying to use the blockchain as a way to sign, kind of verify the originality of a digital file. So you might make a copy, but you wouldn't have the bitmarked one or something like that. But I haven't seen any model that really has worked or has caught on in any way. So yeah, I don't know what the answer is i think that there is one i mean the thing is like um it i think it used to be like oh there's these like digital artists and you're saying like they're still not really represented in like the art world at large but also like every artist is starting to use technology now like seeing these you know I teach in a program that uses technology, but seeing the grad students in fine arts, they're all making GIFs and using computers and using 3D software. So I think they're going to have to figure out something because this is not going back into the box. Totally. Or you have to get really good at painting or something. So what are you really excited about right now? What are you working on? the box. Totally. Or you have to get really good at painting or something. Um, so is there like, what are you really excited about right now? Like, what do you, what are you working on? Um, I'm, I don't know if excited is the right word, but, um, I've been like really obsessed with, uh, just all this home automation stuff and thinking about Alexa and, um, products like that, Google home. And it's so interesting for me compared to something like Google Glass where people were kind of, there was this huge rejection of it when it came out. Whereas with Alexa, I see like, oh, my parents have one. Actually, they got two more for Christmas just because they liked it so much. Or like, my grandma's got one or my friend has one. And it's like, nobody is having such a knee-jerk reaction to it, and I think they are selling it really differently. They don't make it too smart at first, they roll it out, it's like, oh, it's just a smart speaker, and they don't talk about all the really technical things that could be done, or they are doing already, and I think that is coming really soon. it's like first we have to get people used to like the talking speaker and then it could be like the talking speaker that controls everything and like knows every detail about you and streams it all to the web whatever but um so and and for me it's just like so um provocative that it's in the home um and to think of the home as the place where you first learn how to be a person. Talk to people, you learn what your culture and your values are and what your history is. And a lot of that is shaped by your interactions with your environment. And so then if you've got this device or this home system that is answering your questions or talking to you in a certain way or shaping your interactions, how does that change? And it's a pretty small group of developers that are designing these things with very sort of limited set of experiences or views. How do you account for the huge range of people that might be using this? So that's what I've been thinking about. And then the project that I'm working on is I'm trying to become like Amazon Alexa. But I'm making a service that's called Lauren. And so the idea is that I will come into your home and set up all these devices and cameras and then I'll watch you and control your home for you and try to be like better than Alexis you know try to anticipate your needs try to care more try to you know imagine what what would this relationship with your home smart home be like if it was like really taken to its full potential Wow so now like you're exactly on the opposite end of the dating app right yeah yeah i guess so then this is you were asking earlier about yeah um whether i ever control people so i guess or i'm if i'm ever on the controlling end so i guess in this case you're exactly that yeah no i feel like all of your projects have like basically trained people to deal with computers as like empathetic things because they think at least that there's someone behind it operating it and now you're like we've reached an ai and now you're leapfrogging it again to like become the human behind it yeah yeah yeah i well so another piece of this is thinking about these services like umRabbit or Uber or Mechanical Turk where you've got some human on some side of it. And depending on the service, there's a different amount of humanness to this person that's working for you. Like Amazon, Mechanical Turk, they're just like an ID number, basically. And I've seen these like really interesting ads, I don't know, interesting, but ads for like TaskRabbit where it's like lifestyle photography, like woman in her home drinking cup of tea and it's like life post chores, TaskRabbit. And I'm like, oh wait, but like the chores are still happening. Like it's just like there's a person that you don't see that's doing them. And then this one, wait, not like we eliminated them with technology. So it's kind of, you know, that's another angle on this project is like, what is the human behind the scenes? And like, I don't know, are they enjoying this? Is this, are you completely at the service of this other person that tries to imagine you're not there? Or is it actually this relationship in this case where I might have some connection with them? Or is there any place for a human to still be better than artificial intelligence? Or is Alexa going to be able to do this really soon and I'm actually not as good? Well, I think that's the bet, right? The low-level tasks or the repetitive tasks get automated out and the hopefully like creative, like high level knowledge work tasks are remaining, but I have no idea. Yeah. I mean, I think the things that, uh, that's how we like, we like to think that like the things that get automated are the easy things and the things that don't are the ones that require more education or training or higher level skills. But actually I think it divides more like the more human sort of emotional labor is the stuff that just can't get automated. It doesn't have to be high end. It could just be like a person that greets you at the door. It's harder to replace that with a robot than driving a car, which is a more complicated skill. So when you have all the cameras set up around someone's house and you're like observing them, do you ever feel that like you're going to just develop this incredible amount of empathy and become really attached to them and then have difficulty when they like turn off the Lauren device? Yeah. And then I'm just out um yeah I do kind of wonder I I think actually what I'm trying to do with all these projects is just um I realize like bootstrap myself into a place where I get to have this like connection with someone um and part of that's because I just feel so bad at doing that like over like you know I'm with my friend at the coffee shop and he just strikes up a conversation with the woman behind the counter. And I'm like, I don't know how to do that. But I'm going to build this, like, huge elaborate system. And then maybe through that, while I'm watching them brush their teeth and, like, helping them, we'll have some, you know, human moments together. Yeah, so so yeah maybe a little bit of that um i the plan is that if you sign up for the service there's sort of a consultation and we talk for a moment and beforehand and just so it's not like totally random person they don't necessarily know me well but they have some sense of who this person is and we kind of talk about like what would your you to do for you? And then try to enact some of that through when it actually happens. Okay. And so the deal is that your physical body is not going to enter the house. You're never going to do a chore for them, none of that. But you can engage like an API with other services. Yeah. So I'm building this system where I'll be able to turn on and off any electronic device. I can see who's at their door unlock it or not depending like turn on their shower or not or turn it off um and they can also talk to me like you know lauren what's the weather today and i respond but i have this like how many hours are you gonna clock with them um well so i think it will be i ideally it would be like a year or something, but I think it will be like three days or something because what happens with a lot of these performances is that people kind of sign up and they don't know what to expect and then usually it's very interesting and kind of intense, but I don't want it to be like too much. You know, it's like you want to go to a movie and have some different experience but you don't want it to be like so much that you can barely deal with it so um i'll limit it to it like some shorter number of days where like they get a taste of this feeling okay and then you're like on the clock for like a few hours or something well for the whole time during that like three days or so but like i can sleep when they're sleeping and i'll build a system that tells me like wakes me up when they're moving so what about that um because that was wasn't it the electric objects project where you were like on people's facebook pages so yeah well explain that one so the idea there is a little bit convoluted but they so electric objects made this they had this idea like anyone should be able to support art and so they made this kickstarter that was like five dollars and you basically your five dollars goes to commission for artists to make a piece of art and the the only requirement for the artist was that they had to incorporate the people that had supported them in some way and so what i and so you could ask them for a question or like give me your photograph or whatever um so could ask them for a question or give me your photograph or whatever. So I asked them for all their social media handles that they wanted to give. And then for all, there were like 1,000 backers total. I spent five minutes looking through all their social media. And so I set up the system where I'd just queue them up and show me, open all their tabs, and I would start scrolling. And so you could see it watch it online you could go and see exactly what i was looking at and then also in the corner like a little box that was like a camera on me um of me like you know reacting to their stuff yeah it's like a screen share thing yeah yeah so it it lasted for a week i did like eight hours a day or something and then got through all 1,000 people. And did you give them any feedback or was it just you as observer? I liked things sometimes. I didn't want to get like, I only had five minutes, so I didn't comment or anything like that. But yeah, it was mostly just me observing observing but it was also real time and i was going alphabetically so you could kind there were actually a couple people that happened to watch while i was like browsing them um and that was kind of cool because i just wonder like if in a similar vein you start creeping people out like knowing that they're being watched by you yeah i think that will be a weird part of it um and then the question is like well does this feel more invasive than like you know google drop cam or less or if you know that like uh it's a human but like i your your camera's not going anywhere i'm you know i'm the only one that will see it versus it going into some archive somewhere potentially. Are you going to like log like advertising terms and try and sell them stuff? That's a good idea. I hadn't thought about that. You know what you need right now. You have to go like full circle. Yeah, exactly. You want me to order you some of that? Okay, so i actually heard about you like three or four or five years ago when i was running this thing called comedy hack day which was basically just building apps that were funny and then demoing them on stage so it's just a hackathon with like funny projects and i came across all your stuff all the time because people just send it to me and what i always wondered before i met you was like how in on the joke you were. You're like, does this girl know this is funny? People are laughing. Yeah, if you're just this person who's giving a talk about her project and you keep getting applause breaks and you don't realize it, you're like, I'm just trying to learn how to interact with people. And then everyone laughs and then you keep keep presenting yeah and so like meeting you now i like get the sense that you're very in on the joke but like how much of your intention is to make this thing that's actually functional that helps you interact with people and how much of it is just to be like point at something and be like this is interesting maybe it's funny as well um well first i just love that you didn't, you're like, is this, does this give any idea I was laughing at her? Um, um, yeah, so it's definitely, I get this question a lot and, um, or sometimes it's asked like, you know, are you optimistic or critical about the future? And I'm like, yes, both yes both um and then they say which and I'm like well whichever what the opposite of whatever you think um but no to more seriously like um I feel like it's impossible to say you know this any one thing is like bad or good or the right track or the wrong direction um yet we are asked to respond to things so quickly it's like you scroll through it and you're supposed to be like i like that i i'm gonna write an angry tweet about that thing um and so i really want to just like make a space where people can just like consider things for a moment and sort of imagine what it is we're getting ourselves into. And so I find humor like a way to do that because, you know, you laugh and then you kind of, there's always some truth to every joke. And some people, it's less like, let me lecture you about this thing we should all think about. And more here's something ridiculous now what what if i tell you that's the future yeah i mean it's like i used to work at the onion and like we the term was like flintstone vitamin so it's like kind of the sweet thing but it has some amount of nutrients i like that yeah and it's like basically your projects too right like i uh and i wonder like on the flip side like why so much of this like near future science fiction black mirror type tv content is like almost across the board negative and like fearful whereas like your stuff which like more often than not like catches some attention online when you release it and it's like funny and there don't seem to be as many like really negative like uh the world is ending artists, but like yet the media is like the exact opposite of that. Do you have any idea why those like shows are successful? I think they tap into a fear that people have. And yet they present in a way that is sort of like relatable and not just like, you know, doom and gloom headline. But I think for me it's like important i guess that's part of it like yes we feel scared we feel uncertain things are changing quickly we don't know what's going to happen um some things seem definitely going in a terrifying direction um but we can't just like unwind or rewind and we can't just unwind or rewind, and we can't just stop it from coming. So how do we move forward? And so for me, it's essential to find the parts that are worth keeping, that we are excited about, and try to do more of that. And so I guess with all these projects, it's always this layering of both those things. It's like, yes, there's the fear, that it's totally messed up like what's going on but then there's also the part where you're like oh that's kind of nice you know i just followed this person around all day while their phone was like broadcasting the location and like we had like a really sweet time that was weird and great it's cool like have you ever used like wechat where you can just like shake the phone and connect with someone? It's like very pointless, but kind of sweet. Yeah. Yeah. Have you, have you like dug into your projects and tried to like retain people in your apps for longer periods of time to like create a lasting effect or a more lasting effect? That's such a good question. I guess not. I guess. I mean there are a lot of like friendships that have sort of come out of these projects and then I'll continue to you know then you know watch a webcam in their bedroom right not less of that um I mean I actually met my husband through one of these projects um which is I was when I was doing the social Turkers thing, he was actually, happened to be one of the people watching and giving advice on the last date. And then wrote to me afterwards and was like, wow, this project was so interesting, I would love to meet up. And then we, yeah. Crazy, so it did work out. Right, so people always ask if their project's successful and I'm like, well, I mean, yeah, kind of. I got a husband out of it, I guess. Yeah, that would be a success. Yeah. But not in the way you think. You met someone who was helping you interact with people. And what's his attitude toward other people like? Like obviously, or maybe not obviously, he likes to be on the computer side of your projects or does he like to be told what to do interacting with others um he needs no instruction he's just like totally comfortable yeah he's comfortable with computers he's comfortable with people yeah i just keep him around for like just jealous yeah just trying to learn and so um and so what is he he's a digital artist as well, right? What kind of stuff does he work on? Well, so we work on a lot of projects together. So we did this US Plus project that I mentioned. He's maybe a little bit, dives deeper in some of the theory and technical things that are possible. And so right now he's working on a lot of machine learning experiments and doing some really cool stuff with that. Before that he was really focused on computer vision, so he did this one project where he had this pile of mirror balls, disco balls, and then he had a number of projectors that were aimed at them and a number of cameras. And the camera would detect where every single surface of every single ball was and then project the proper pattern so that when it bounced off of the balls, it would create these patterns on the walls that looked like really cool morphing arrangements that were all super calculated based on all these angles of reflection yeah that's pretty technical yeah yeah very cool though man and so okay so if someone like likes your work like and what's his name just so people know oh kyle mcdonald yeah and so if someone likes your work or kyle's work um and they want to start doing this kind of thing where would you like where do they get started? Do they go to art school? Do they learn, like, processing? What do they do? Yeah. I mean, I think tools like processing or P5.js, open frameworks, Arduino for electronics, these are really great places to just start messing around. School is great, but I don't think it's, like like necessary at all um I think what's really actually exciting about these tools is that there are these communities of people um online and like you know artists have always been good at making community but I think especially digital artists like that is where they go to find each other um and so I would say just start experimenting hang out online try to figure out like what, I guess the biggest thing is like, what is your unique way of looking at this stuff or working with it? You know, a lot of, it's easy to make something sparkly, but like, what, what do you have to say or what do you see in it? That's different than what others do. Do you find that by like contemplating or do you find it by just doing stuff? I think it's different for everyone. I just start with like my anxieties and work from there. Oh yeah. I guess that's pretty obvious. But yeah, I think doing stuff is usually a good place to go if you haven't, it's not coming in your thoughts. And like, I guess wrapping up, like what are, um, for people in art school, like what is your advice to them like how how could someone make the most out of it um I think so a couple things um you know and the thing you'll probably hear from your teachers is like this is your moment to take risks and to fail and you should do that and And, you know, that's pretty easy. But the people are the thing that is really special about grad school. You know, the network that you make with the teachers or the people in the community and the alumni, but especially like your peers in the program. These are the people that you'll continue to run into and connect with through your life. And so just to take, you know, not to be so focused on your work that you don't connect with the people around you. And then the thing I wish I had known was like to ask questions. Like I always felt like I was supposed to know what to do and I never had any clue. And so I just tried to like get through without getting in trouble or something. But now I have all these students that are just like asking me questions all day long. And I'm like, well, I wish I had done that. Like I could have gotten so much value out of this. Like, I didn't know you could ask anything. Incredibly helpful. I'm like when I was just starting to like do some Python stuff, like having that mentor that I could ask really dumb questions to made all the difference when it came to just like I would learn things that I wasn't even intending to learn because they're just like oh you just do that and then it works and you're like oh god I wish oh man um and then my last question for you is uh just like influences so um artists I guess most obvious uh but then like any kind of like books or film or anything like that? I would say artists, you know, ones that are sort of further in their careers that I'm looking at are like Sophie Kyle, Jill Mageed, both of them kind of dealing with surveillance and watching in really personal ways. A lot of like performance artists, like Touching Shea, who like a lot of like performance artists like touching Shay who like tied himself with a rope to his collaborator for a year and they didn't separate and I just think of this as like you know we're doing all this like interaction design but like I'll you know a rope can like change your life I don't think they spoke to each other after that project ended Wow and yeah and then I guess in terms of movies actually I read a lot of books and I read a lot of fiction my favorite is like Joyce Carol Oates and because I heard that like fiction changes your personality and so I'm always trying to do that I'm trying everything I'm always trying to do that. However I can change my personality to better interact with people. What do I need? I'm not sure Joythkill is the one that you want, because usually your characters are really twisted. And I also love this movie called Synecdoche, New York, where it's like this artist kind of building this world that he sort of loses himself in. But the last scene is like him listening to this, oh, this is spoiler alert, this audio tape where he's got these headphones and it's like instructing what to do. And it's like, go up the stairs into this like set of a house, world he's built. And it's like, go up the stairs, lie down in bed, close bed close your eyes now like die something like that like that was like the end of his life um yeah so that's my dream for end of life wow care i think we're definitely gonna get there we're probably there right now write an audiobook um cool all right so if someone wants to like learn more about you follow you online where do you like publish stuff? Yeah. Um, so website, Lauren dash McCarthy. Yep. That's right. Dot com. Um, and yeah, you can go there or you can, um, and that's where I publish most things. Like most of my pieces are first kind of released online as videos or, um, intervention. So you might not even know it's my work but you might see something pop up that are is out outraging people in your social media feed or something like that. There you go that's you. Will you be doing anything this summer that people can like check out? Yeah so I'm doing this home project and I'm actually going to be open soon for signups. So you can look out for that. And potentially I can come watch you in your home and control everything. And that will be on your website, your Twitter account or something? Yeah, both of those. Yeah, and then I guess the other thing to check out is like p5js.org, which is this platform that I lead the development of. If you're interested in making some code art yourself. Okay, thank you. Yeah, thanks. You're great. you