 How did you meet your co-founder and decide to get going? Sure. So I was originally a computer science student and I started a PhD. And my PhD was an attempt to see if we could automatically measure how good a programmer is, basically. So put them through a variety of sort of simulated code and ask them to say what the output would be. And, you know, we had some really interesting findings from that research, but I got bored. I got bored for two reasons. One is that some of the findings were slightly uncomfortable for some universities because i was basically saying that hey this person you're saying is getting a 65 score i actually don't think they can program because they can't tell me what this code outputs oh wow and people don't want to hear that obviously just because they figured out how to take exams well yes precisely yes so like so typically the way and this is true worldwide, I think, the way like people at universities would mark a piece of code is they say, all right, we'll give them three points if they have a for loop and two points if they have an if statement. And people just learned that off. So the phenomena is like the template-based marking encourages template-based learning. So people know what a solution should look like, but they have no idea what it does right much like learning off latin or something so uh so anyway i was kind of that finding was became more and more uncomfortable for universities and as i said hey i'd like to do some years i study on your students uh here's my hypothesis they're like no thanks uh so i started writing a blog instead because that was the alternative to publishing was just to write about this stuff and then i started writing about design and usability and one day somebody commented on my blog his name was owen mccabe and uh he was organizing this coffee morning in dublin city for like all the like you know the people who worked on the internet which is a small group and this is like 2006 and uh and i went along and actually a funny story is i met own for the first time there who i went out to start intercom with i also met my wife for the first time with that really that same wow high value yeah it was exactly a good day's work yeah uh so uh i actually went and took a different job with a consultancy and then for one year me and i'm kind of kept in touch and then one day he emailed me say hey i'm starting my own thing do you want to get involved so we started working we had an agency called contrast was like a design agency. And then we were following the 37signals model. We wanted to have a side project that we'd eventually pivot to. So our side project was a tool called Exceptional. It was a Ruby on Rails based error handler. And it would alert developers and notify them, hey, this piece went wrong and here's who was affected. And that was the normal trajectory. And then one day we were getting really frustrated trying to communicate with our users because we had thousands and thousands of people using the product. But the product would frequently perform slowly or fall over. And the state of the internet back in 2010 wasn't good. So the infrastructure wasn't there. There was no Stripe. If we wanted to mail all of our paying customers to apologize for some downtime it was like log into the paypal dashboard get an export of all your subscriptions run that through some pearl to extract email addresses import the email addresses into campaign monitor mail chimp send out a notification get all the replies and like you know and all the like auto replies and all that shit back into your own email you know resurrect your email after like two hours of going through it trying to fix it up and all of that we had to do every single time we wanted to say anything to our customers that was the norm so one day uh we had this little message pop up in the bottom hand corner bottom right hand corner of the product saying hey we're sorry we were down yesterday here's the changes we made read our blog post and people are like oh and we saw a lot of engagement in the blog post, much better than we ever saw with email. And then we sort of started to riff from there. We're like, well, what if people could reply to us? Like imagine talking to somebody when they're using your product and letting them talk back. So inevitably, you know, we started adding these little bits of pieces of features. Another iteration was like, what if we could list like who's using your product right now all of this in 2017 is taken for granted but this did not exist in 2011 and uh so we started and then it was like what if we could send a message to some people but not all people what if we could send it at a specific time today we call that like behavioral marketing automation but like back then we were just like this just seems like it makes sense uh so in every i remember distinctly reading one comment going like, I'm not actually much of a fan of your product, but this little chat thing is amazing. We're like, maybe you should all go build that or something like that, right? And obviously we had been thinking that a lot, but it was like the feedback we were getting from people really just pushed us and pushed us. So eventually we sold Exceptional. It went on to become a part of Rackspace. And then we had this little thing for talking to users. We had a new problem now. We had no users. So we had to go and build the back end, if you like, so that we could give it to other people so that we would have our own customers so that we would know. Well, I was wondering if you were just going to steal all the users from Exceptional and move over. Because this was maybe the most asked question for you. the folks who acquired exceptional they're actually kind enough to use intercom to push one last message out to sort of say hey we're the new owners like we're here we're great we're gonna love you for the rest of your lives etc if you're curious what happened to the old gang they're off working on this thing called intercom go check it out and uh and it was like july 1st 2011 we got to like the top of hacker news uh for like you know intercom like a cool new product or whatever and uh and the engagement on that trade that's i still read it and then it was just kind of that was the first moment i was like i knew that other people had this problem and was that the hn was that your first push for signups yeah pretty much we have so we had like a reasonable sort of uh contact list from people who had used our previous products people who we knew from conferences or people who had read our old blog so we had an audience of sorts and we my job in the early days was like literally mailing people every day and be like here's what intercom could look like inside your product do you want to give it a try one by one like literally one by one we were onboarding people if they said yes they'd jump on a skype call with our cto kieran he'd walked and through the installation like this is like this is what it took back down like uh and like one by one we were winning customers and then once we felt we had a relatively smooth signup flow we're like well let's tell the world and see what happens okay because you guys have made a giant content push was that going on previously with the other company yeah so uh and our and when we were consultancy content was the way we would try and like get attention so we could attract clients and then later on it grow a user base for exceptional but when intercom was very it was you know we we knew we were good at it uh i specifically was my job uh so i was like right well the intercom you know today we're a lot more polished in terms of saying what we're actually selling but like uh but but back then it was just like we need cool startup folks to read this and then if we can win their trust then we'll be like hey try and song this and and that was like that was like the you know the very common question i guess what was the basis of your content strategy and i'm like write shit startup people read and then try and tell them about your product every now and then that was like and that was what we did i wrote i think i wrote 93 of the first 100 posts and it was all like here's how you grow a user base. Here's how you should think about funding. Here's how you should name your product. It was just anything that we felt we had any bit of expertise in, we'd write a post around it. And every now and then we'd be like, oh, here's something else we added to Intercom. Yeah, because that's a critical understanding that we could blow right past. So many people in their content just try and do sales pitches over and over and it never works and they can't figure out why yeah it's it's my my number like basically you're totally correct uh a lot of people's attempt at content marketing is i want intercoms user base so they blog so i just need to write about my product all the time uh whereas we actually took very much like it's content first marketing second right you know so it's like the content has to be good yeah so the the advice i'd give people is usually like think about who your actual end target user is and think of all the problems in their life that you can help them with and then try and help them as much as you can and then every now and then hopefully you're if you're ideally aligned your product also solves one of their problems for intercom it's usually like you want to grow your web app or you want to grow your user base we can do that um but we'll but we know to get your attention we have to plant many seeds so we'll talk about design we'll talk about product we'll talk about product strategy we'll talk about like you know tech news whatever makes sense to us we'll talk about as long as the criteria we have is generally it should be like timeless content it should always be roughly true and uh and that's how we we have like you know very very big readership of our blog today and uh it's one of our you know it is our dominant traffic source but uh we you know that wasn't true for the first 100 posts well i was wondering were you punching above your weight at that time did it feel weird writing these kind of authoritative posts so i think um it definitely didn't did not feel weird i think like the reason i would say i felt confident to do it is because we it was never i was never trying to say like here's how you you know like uh here's a you know scale of 100 million dollar error or company whatever and i hate when people try to do that uh we were always talking about about like you know all of our experiences were based on the two products we had run, Intercom and Exceptional. And it was, like, the lessons that we had learned. So I was always careful to kind of qualify, like, hey, like, we're at 6,000 active users. We were at zero four months ago. I can talk to you about the zero to 6,000 thing. I think that's relatively safe. Yeah. So and then, like, the areas where maybe it was slightly more, if we talk about branding or say how to name your company or how to think about your product vision, yeah, there are definitely better people in the industry, but they're not fucking writing these posts. So wear what you get. Do you want it? At that time, did you consider yourself a strategist? No. No, I consider myself a startup person, if you know what I mean. Because you were a CS undergrad, right? Yeah, computer science, for sure. So were you the CTO at the time? No, no. So I was a computer science undergrad. In fact, all of the founders studied computer science. But our CEO and I moved into design as our career. I was a UX designer, usability testing, interaction design, that sort of stuff. Owen was primarily ux designer you know usability testing interaction design that sort of stuff own was primarily a visual designer and then we had uh two or two or two engineers like a person who built the front end of intercom like their little messenger piece and then our cto basically owned the rest okay gotcha um because i was curious about what your role has been throughout the process like how has it shifted and we talked before you were on camera uh like it's already shifting again it will always shift uh i you know i do kind of go to wherever the biggest problem that i think i can help what is that's kind of what usually attracts me it's like you know i want to intercom to be a world class company and wherever i see areas where i think i can help level up i'll jump in in the very early days i worked you know my i sort of tree jobs like work with with Owen on company vision strategy, that sort of stuff, work with Ciarán and David on what they're actually building day-to-day, and then basically talk to users and try and help people find out about Intercom. So that was blogging. I used to do webinars at 7 p.m. in the evening in Dublin for people over here. I just do live here, let me talk to you about anything to do with the product. It was anywhere I was needed. But in the early days, it was very much like it was working on what we're building and then trying to tell people about it. And then as we grew, we brought in more senior product folk. And then at some point, maybe around 25 people, I was like, all right, product looks like it's in a good place. the next biggest thing and what turns out we had no customer support at this time like i was also doing a bit of that and we had maybe one or two people so so i jumped on customer support i worked with uh jeff who's our director of support still today and built out that team and there's other teams that came along since then we had maybe like people ops was the next thing then bits of recruiting were the next thing uh and then about two years ago it was marketing so so like you know we kind of got to a point where like we think intercom is definitely the product's definitely going to our place we would we'd love to like kind of refine our ideas about like how we bring it to market how we describe it yeah how we explain what it is what our what's our relationship with the media how do we pay for advertising all that sort of stuff so that's what i've been working on for two years and and as you said they'll you know there'll be future problems i'm sure but it's so cool because so rarely founders shift roles in top in like entirely separate categories right it's very common when you start a company to like start doing everything and then focus but to shift roles between groups is different how do you learn those skills yeah i that is a good question and i do agree it's not like it's not the default thing usually you find your corner and you stay in it like for a very good reason it's what you're good at um i think like two years ago i was when i was starting in marketing i felt a little intimidated because uh marketing itself it's not really um like there's no real like marketing 101 sort of thing there's no like marketing for dummies there's no like there's no like pickaxe book for marketing you know well it's less quantifiable than like this code runs or this code doesn't run precisely and you and it's and if i said here name somebody who's good at marketing and you're not allowed to say apple uh like everyone's opinion is kind of different right so so and like frankly like marketers don't really like write many articles about how to think about things uh or like how you structure things or you know i've talked to maybe 50 different vps of marketing at this point about how their marketing org is structured and they're all different like very like like not just different as an oh you put one person like substantively different like even like in terms of like sometimes brand design is inside sometimes it's outside sometimes communications reports the ceo sometimes reports to a partner marketing you know all of that's different so i did find it quite intimidating early on. And more so than the other areas where I felt there was a lot of literature and there's a lot of best practices out there, marketing was a challenge. And the way I actually kind of learned was, like, I did get connected to great companies and basically sit and learn and absorb and see what worked and what didn't. And then I wouldn't say, like, I kicked ass in marketing and Intercom either. I've made plenty of mistakes there as well, fundamentally based on misunderstanding what roles will work, what types of people will work, what approaches will work. So there has been, you know, I definitely know a lot more today and I feel like today I'd feel justified in applying for a marketing job somewhere. Or writing a marketing blog post. Yeah, for sure. But two years ago, I was aware of two things. I was aware that we tried hiring marketers and we hadn't worked out well. So I figured at the very least, if I can learn enough to know what good looks like, that'd be great. Were there a couple of rules that you've kind of maybe learned just through experience over the past couple of years that you could share? Rules? Of marketing? Yeah, I guess there's definitely principles i've just picked up over time one is like the you know the general narrative about marketing is people will tell well the engineers approach to marketing is like we're going to hire a marketer and they're going to find the keywords that are cac ltv positive that is the customer acquisition cost is less and we're going to dump all of our 50 million dollars into that and it's going to spit out 100 million dollars and like basically that never happens right that and i really like someone's gonna like i'm sorry des i have one case where it never happens like for for all intents and purposes um and uh so i think like you know whenever you have someone promising you that it's usually absolute horse shit uh the the next i guess um the let me just take like see so aside from that like the next piece i think is um understanding how people buy your product is more important than selling your product if you know what i mean uh so one big eye opener for me was that like some people come shopping for intercom some people come shopping for a chat widget on a website right some people come looking for a solution to their growth challenges all right and they're all actually looking for intercom and what i mean is like there are various levels of abstraction various ways people can buy your product so like i think a lot of times companies get sucked into selling their product one particular way yeah and maybe they like you know maybe they pick one of those things and like we are you know live chat it's like yes you're live chat and some people know that they need live chat as in they've gone to the doctors they've gotten the diagnosis and they're like we need live chat they talk to their friend and their friend yeah totally and like so you so you have this brand one which is like your friend says install intercom yeah then you have this like maybe uh you know you've changed marketing leaders and like hey we need live chat on our site that worked in the old place and they're like okay now you're shopping for live chat so we need to be in that shopping for live chat then we have people who are like hey i've just joined a new company and one of the challenges is actually we're not converting leads in our home page now at this point like should they install optimizely should they install intercom should they redesign their homepage should they hire a better designer we're now in a much bigger fight but we still need to put our hand up and say hey that's actually a business problem we can affect too so uh so i think like one of the big lessons for us in intercom has been like learning to be able to like to put our hand up in all of those different shopping journeys so like that was like one and whenever i speak to other people who are maybe like earlier on in the marketing career and they're looking for guidance typically what they find is like you know in their google advertising they're bidding on their own company name right and i'm like that's cool but that's actually not where to you know that's not what people are shopping for right well it's a challenge that we have at yc you know like for people in the tech industry who know they want to do an accelerator like the likelihood that they know yc is is pretty high yes and we can convince them to do yc possibly yeah then there are other people that are have no idea what a startup is or have a this vague notion and we have to speak to them as well yeah and so what strategies do you guys use to appeal to that type of person or each of those people without alienating the others yes so and this is uh this is kind of a core of what we uh how we think about it so so when you have somebody who, say, is, you know, obviously YC has a brand, right? So some people just shop for YC, and maybe you're so dominant you don't even need to bid on that because they're going to find you anyway. But also, like, you know, in some sense, you know, there is no substitute, right? As you take a step back, like, some people just want the money, right? And it's like, I'll take YC, I'll take tech stars, I'll take 500 startups, whatever, right? And now you're into an actual brand war. Now the question is, should you bid on 500 startups, the keyword, right? Should you, should you try and say, we are better, and here's why we are better right that's like the sort of competitive angle to marketing right and and and if you can pull that off you now get to like compete for all the super set of the traffic not just the yc shoppers anymore right and then you have the people who like who have a startup and they don't know if they want money or not in which case now these people aren't googling right they're not going you know hypothetically if i was to start a startup would i want you know like know, like that? We could own that long search term. Yeah, exactly. You'd be the only person bidding on it and that'd be you testing it. So like, basically what happens is like the amount, the size of the, it's getting bigger each time, right? There are more people who are thinking about starting a startup than there are people looking for YC today, right? Yeah. So uh so but at the same time like your likelihood of conversion is going down right it was in you know someone looking for yc is going to convert somebody who's like thinking about taking incubator money they might not cover it uh your pitch needs to be more all-inclusive at the sort of far side so you can't you can't start if i'm saying hey i'm thinking about taking some incubator money you can't start with well 12 weeks you're gonna have dinners with founders we had joel spolsky in last you know i need to be like whoa talk to me about the concept of incubation first of all you know get me buying that thing first and then i'll learn why you're best right so so for intercom like what that looks like is we need to convince you that you should care about your customers right if you care about your customers and you care about the value of a customer relationship and we can get people on board with that yep then we're like okay we've built one bridge the next bridge we'd like to talk to you about is why messaging is a great way to build a relationship okay so we'll we'll none of these pitches individually convert right they're all like this is where people like why the fuck do you write this shit does and i'm like so like so you have like so you you write a whole piece that's effusive about why messaging is the future and messaging your customers is important people like okay so i get the relationships are important i get that messaging builds relationships i'm like okay cool now do you get now they talked about intercom is messaging and our philosophy to messaging and you see you have sort of this like cascading series of like thought leadership you sort of style ideas that bring you from in our world like i you know i would like to grow a big user base yeah all the way through to i need intercom yesterday and in your world it might be like i'm curious about incubator cash and you want to catch them at that point and maybe the blog post you're right there is like how to think about early financing or maybe it's like why you should move to the valley or you know whatever it is and you want to catch them at that point and then you can walk them down the logical path where like there's obviously no other choice why on earth wouldn't you go yc right and that's you know that's the actual approach that we've you know we've played out in intercom and that like retrospectively i can tell you that has been our content marketing strategy but we didn't start with the thinking wasn't that crisp at the start no and are you tracking someone throughout this journey kind of not we're not doing a great job on that to be honest uh we will get there and we've just made some good new hires in marketing who will kind of improve that sort of side of things but we do know like that yes we we can see that the amount of repeat readers we have and we can see the most popular articles and we can see the articles that convert most uh now like this is exactly where like the the maybe slightly more fisher price approach to marketing would be like hey des i've noticed that the piece uh about intercom's new messenger converts a lot why don't you write a lot more of those posts and it doesn't actually work that way right you have to you have to do the warm-ups to get them to there you know uh so i think that's like uh that's the piece that people don't necessarily get like In general, the marketing world is one where you move from like, this is really hard to attribute and it costs a lot of money down to like, hey, we spent seven cent and it kicked ass, right? But that whole thing is a spectrum. And you have to be willing to do the unattributable things and let them, you know, to kind of grow awareness or whatever. And then on the far side, the attributable stuff which looks really really successful works but if you only do that everything suffers so one example i have a friend who like who basically he ran like paid marketing for a very very big uh sort of sports gambling firm and uh and he kicked ass one year he you know ran all his campaigns phenomenally well and ceo looks at like sort of the brand spend and looks at the online digital attributable spend and ceo says hmm i'm going to give you all the budget because you're the one who's performant so next year what happens so you've got all the budget per brand person's got nothing so you go absolutely batshit heavy on like spending everything you can but all your conversion rates are dropping you're like what's going on and it turns out that your conversion rates are dropping because you don't have the same brand penetration that you did yeah and and like this is why like you need to like think about this thing holistically you need to ask yourself are we building the brand are we creating the right brand resonance and relevance that we can cash in on because the cashing in on i don't want to say it's easy. It's an absolute expertise, but it sits on a platform of work that has to be done before it. The only exception is when you've got like a fast moving consumer good, right? Like if you're like selling share heads on Facebook or something like that, it's like just target people who say the word share or hit them hard. We don't need to create this whole big sort of movement around sharing. People already share. But yeah, most of us especially specifically in our industry we're not selling fast movements and we're not selling necessarily obvious things either like it's not a given that you have to install like a podcast plug-in well so that was a thing i was literally dealing with this morning before we met up there's an issue with one of the audio files and a podcast i'm editing right and i don't know the word for what's going wrong with it i know there must be some effect that i can apply to fix it but i don't even know what the fucking word is and i'm sure that's the case with intercom yeah that's the case with yc yeah and so like we have to figure out what the synonyms are totally people don't know they need it yet right like and yeah it's precisely and uh the the other marketing principle i'd say is like um you you can't sell somebody on the solution until they've bought the problem right so like me trying to pitch you on like the audio worker or whatever the hell it is you need until you have that problem you're not even you don't give a shit right it's like so like so finding those moments is really is a really important challenge as well and like and then as you said like the synonyms just a wide net. There's like 10 ways to describe a problem. For like Intercom, it could be like retention is suffering or it could be like we need to accelerate user growth. Or it's like, how do we maintain user growth? Or it's like, how do I influence customer engagement? They're all actually looking for the same thing, which might be like, I want to speak to my users about specific times to get them to take the right action action so that they can move forward uh they're all shopping for the exact same thing but they have a million different ways to describe it and we need to be there and put our hand up for every single one of those and not just like point them to this is the other mistake people make pointing them like hey all right so i got the bid term i'm going to point them at the home page that doesn't work because if someone says i want to onboard my users better because onboarding conversion rates are per and we're like yeah we can bid on all that. We know we're good at all that. But if we point you to intercom.com, we're going to say, we're an all-in-one marketing platform where our mission is to make internet business personal. Wait, wait, back, back, back. Sorry. Hang on. I thought I was onto something there. We actually need to be like, you want to onboard. You're in the right place here let me hold your hand and walk you through how we're going to help you with the onboarding problem and i'll be like okay and the very end of all you'll be like oh by the way this whole thing intercom you know that's how that works unfortunately so a lot of people wanted you to talk about product how do you think about um all this content marketing effort in the context of you know your product shifting and evolving over time like how do you merge those two things if you know intercom is known for one thing yeah and you have this whole history and all this seo around that when your products start shifting yeah how do you think about it so as long as um you know basically at you know every product i've often said like uh you know product and marketing and code and design are all like they're all renderings of the same core idea okay so like so to give you an example one core idea in intergram is like sending the right message to the right person at the right time in the right place and um and we have ruby code that does that and we have a designed screen called the campaign editor that does that and i have a blog post that does this and i have a whole conference talk that i do this as well right they're all carrying the same message in different ideas so at the core of every one of our products educate respond and engage we have these like core ideas and we have loads of different ways to sort of talk about them case studies on how they help why it matters what the big vision for the beach is and uh and as we've evolved our product we've had to like bring more ideas into the fold the at the very core like intercom we're about making internet business personal so as long as we can never bring something in that is the opposite of that right but uh but we can certainly have a collection of ideas that we can represent so when we bring so we launched a new product in december uh of last year uh called educate and uh it was basically it's our take on a knowledge base for like basically offering proactively offering uh educational content to your customers. And what that meant was I, you know, I sit down with marketing team and I'm like, all right, well we need to work out what are the core ideas here and right events. What can we do in terms of events content? What are we going to do? Books? Are we going to do books? How are we going to get this in a podcast? What's this for this what are all the different ways people bid on this you know media how are we going to talk to the press about this you know and you're kind of looking for like everyone here's the core idea you're all welcome to take your own lens or your own flavor of it but we all need to push on this idea and so the bad things happen i think when either your product uh sorry your product and your marketing are out of sync so as in uh karen peacock who's our ceo she always says, build what you sell, sell what you build. If you're not doing both of those things, you're in fucking trouble, basically, right? But similarly, I think, so that's the first challenge. If we're selling onboarding and you think you're building like auto mailing, we're in trouble, right? And then similarly, the piece that I think a lot of startups, and we've had to fight to get this right, is making sure that your brand is also resonant with the same ideas like uh you know so you can't you know i often think of you know michelin the people who do michelin star restaurants sure yeah you know it's a tire company i do yeah so like i often think like that's like you know orthogonal brands in a lot of ways like no one no one finishes their meal goes i'm gonna buy some tires you know like uh like i i do worry i see a lot of startups like specifically people who folks who try to copy say something like say stripes brand and like we want to be cool with developers too yeah like that's great but you're selling an online writing app developers aren't your thing you know they don't care um but they have this really cool tech blog and like but that's literally it's not against what you're doing but it's just totally worth it's just like it just it also happens to happen at the same time it's not helping you at all right well how do you think about product in that way then because obviously you guys are a big company now you could release a ton of products yes how do you figure out like what's going to resonate with your customers and your brand so at the very very start we've kind, we set our stall out to say we are, our mission is to make internet business personal, right? So, so at the very core, anytime we have to like make a decision about whether or not we do a product, we ask ourselves, does this make business more personal on the internet, right? So you can sort of say like, would we release a tool that made it easy to spam people you've never talked to before? Well, no, because that's,'s that's that's totally opposite would we release a tool that lets you stream soccer live to your mobile phone no because that's i didn't read that in an interview though yeah i wish you were working on yeah yeah um yeah um but like is so like that's kind of our core sort of guardrail for like the product is just basically it doesn't do that and then within there, then we have other sort of, let's say, rubrics for what's the next most important way we could tackle the impersonality of digital business. And so we kind of move through it like that. And every change we make in product has to trigger changes in product marketing product design you know brand content marketing sales etc yeah um so you do have to have this sort of like inside out sort of thing where like at the very core we decide all right we're now also going to you know do like push notifications all right well why are they personal okay well let's expand from there right and it has to weep out into everything otherwise your product your marketing and your brand get out of sync and that's when bad things happen and really truly well you've talked about this in the context of hiring and growth right because you'd like you become out of sync and then it kind of expounds or rather goes exponentially yes if you start hiring the wrong people yeah totally yeah it's so easy to yeah the point i make I make exactly in sort of hiring is like, if you hire one person who's not on the same page, and you let them hire people, they're going to hire more people who aren't on the same page. And next thing you know, you have whole wings of the company working against you in bad ways. And they don't think they're being malicious. They think they're helping, but, you know, sometimes they can be doing the exact wrong thing, but But sometimes they can be doing the exact wrong thing. But more often, they're just doing something that's literally not helping. So it's not hurting, but it's just, they may as well not be doing it for a long time. Right, it's just not working. Yeah, whatever. Yeah, just playing games. How do you guard against that? Alignment is like, I think it's like doing, so we had a big event here two nights ago, Inside Intercom. inside intercom and it's like our blog on tour we had like a thousand people and one of the talks i was made it gave it was all about like keeping people aligned um i think like basically like the things that you know that when companies go through these really fast growth periods there's a few things that always always get left behind yeah one of them is like new hire onboarding so like person number uh five joining a four-person company has like full access to everyone and basically absolute immersion therapy right they learn everything by osmosis person number 66 joining a 65 person company gets access to three people each of whom have been there less than a year right it's not the same thing no but almost always no one's designed it any differently so they're just like oh well you know so the logical conclusion is that the company goes off course. So we invested, and we made versions of this mistake quite a lot in the early days. Today we obsess over new hire onboarding. When I leave here, I'll be headed back to Dublin on Tuesday morning. That's all I'm doing is just meeting people and letting them know, what are we doing? What are we actually doing here why are we doing it why do we care what is the problem space why why does it matter to us how do we do it like how do we actually work like how does work happen at intercom in certain practical terms this means a one-on-one meeting with you just talking yeah it starts it'll be a combination of sort of first so it's a bunch of newires. And it'll be a presentation from me about like walking through, obviously everything. And then we'll be one-on-one meetings. And then it'll be, you know, we'll take it from there, you know, because they're not all reporting to me in this case. So they'll be with their manager to kind of keep that going. But it's like, I would say that I still believe that we're probably don't do enough. They really don't think about what's the experience of being person number 397 at your company. And then they act somehow shocked and like, I can't believe they thought it was okay to ship that. You're like, well, show me the guardrails that stopped. Or how on earth were they supposed to work that out? Yeah, absolutely. And yeah, you can't really blame them. I mean, we do it. We need to do a better job here as well uh andy cook asked a question related to this um so in addition to hiring uh what has been the biggest challenge with scaling the organization yeah um i guess like there's a few ones that have you know uh they're probably more typical but like when eventually you end up hiring into areas you don't understand well yeah and uh and your best bet at that point is to kind of like go and find somebody who you think is doing a good job at it and uh but like you you know you're still you know it's still a version of the same flawed logic which is i think i can work this out you know right they wrote a blog post about this so they probably know it all right like you know it's there's some version of that um and it's very easy when you're dipping your toes in areas that you really don't understand to basically be bullshitted um i think specifically in marketing and sales land this is more common marketers and sales people are good at marketing to you and selling to you so if you've never hired a salesperson before don't be shocked if the first person that comes to you sells you on the roll you know like, like that's, you know, it's obvious in hindsight sort of thing. But I think like, you know, it's genuinely tough to break outside of your own area of expertise and hire well there. But like you will learn it, but it just it takes longer and you don't get the same immersion that you did from like, say, studying computer science or something like that. So that's definitely one. I think we probably more than other companies, we started with two offices. So in some sense we never had to deal with, you know, with the like, Oh my God, there were two offices. We were always two. But that's been a challenge, like working out like the right head counts in the right places. We now have four offices. We're in like Dublin, London, San Francisco, and Chicago. And we're sort of spread and it makes some things really tricky. Like today we had like a show and tell sort of thing where everyone, everyone who works on any sort of aspect, anyone who's got anything to show basically they kicked ass, they closed a great sales deal, built a great piece of product or whatever they all line up to present. But like orchestrating that is so hard across all the time zones across all the offices. It's just, it's, it's far from easy and uh and you have to do these sort of uh sort of little rituals to keep the whole company on the same page um but maintaining that is it's hard and it was hard for us from the very start today we can spend a lot of money on video conferencing and shit like that but uh but early on it was it was rough like do you spend money like flying people around to hang out with each other you do like any kind of uh everyone comes together we have we haven't done a sort of all company all hands i think in like two and a half three years but we definitely do like versions of it so any team that's distributed will will always come together once once to four times a year depending on the type of team okay then like the leadership level and executive level we do like six times a year or something like that so like there's versions of it like for for me what that means is if i get on flight number ei147 everyone knows me because you know which is never like you know you don't want to be like on four square like the mayor of the lounges in the airports and all that but like c'est la vie um what hasn't worked out what's been really hard for you personally uh i think uh marketing has been tough the stuff i've really struggled with is um hiring senior leaders in a function where you don't understand it well is tough uh it's a it's a big challenge and uh and they're never bad people like they're always at this point when you're when you're going shopping for like directors and senior directors and vps you're only really talking to accomplished people um so like it's not people. So it's not like you get them in and it turns out they don't know how to write code or something like that. It's very much the feedback period to whether or not their strategy is correct for the company can be six months to a year, which is long. The impact, if they're going the wrong direction, can be negative because you have to bet on them, which means you have to like impair them to hire impair them to do everything that they need to do impair them spend the budget etc yeah uh and then you get to find out like in quite a while if all this pays back and uh so i think like it's the piece that's hard i actually don't think i've made that many mistakes per se but i've just paid quite an emotional tax of just kind of a great degree of uh um like fear and anxiety in the recruiting process and then uh and then like i guess and honestly post post hire like you're kind of like well like you know i need to do everything i can to make this a success so i think that's genuinely like that's something i've struggled with um learning a lot of people stuff has been hard like so learning how to like ensure that we actually have a good policy for say performance management i think those conversations and even on podcasts like this it's easier for me to not talk about stuff but like yes of course companies have to fire people and do all sorts of totally yeah um no one ever wants to hear it of course but like uh i think you know getting to a place where uh you understand that these things should be like openly discussed and and like and you know uh professional conversations by people who know what they're doing uh getting there like genuine i think every startup i talk to it takes them way too long and i think you know if i was to do it all again of course you'd be more familiar but like uh but i think yeah you know there's a lot of obvious pitfalls um that and and yet i don't think you can necessarily preempt every mistake as in even if i told somebody who's just starting a first startup here's everything i know about this like some of it's kind of like yeah that doesn't apply to me and they're not gonna you know yeah you know it's back to that point i was saying earlier like you're not gonna buy the solution until you've bought the problem and you know i'm trying to i'm trying to force feed them like you know yeah were there any books or anything because i i feel similarly like so many people have given me advice and i've had to fall into the hole myself before i could really learn it but were there any you know books or podcasts that really helped you figure out how to manage people better uh ranz uh has a book called managing humans and thought that was, it's written entirely in story form. So it's not preachy. It's not like, it's not like here's like, you know, it's very much like here's stories from his time. Now, I'm sure they're either fake or embellished or modified to protect the innocent. But it's written in a very sort of conversational tone where it kind of reminds me of the hard thing about hard things with ben harvitz but like uh it's every story they're almost like fortune cookies when you think about it for a second like shit i have been in that situation or where i put somebody in that situation or i was that guy uh and i think like it's a great book for that reason i think at the very least what it does what i see it do like with first-time managers is it opens their eyes to the idea that there's more going on to managing than just being really good at engineering you know like they realize there's an actual whole craft here that they need to perfect to be to take the next steps in their career i think it's a great book for that but it's also a book i think the third time you read it you probably start picking up better lessons than you did the first time okay and so um just to shift gears back to the product. Yeah, cool. If someone is just getting started out, what do you advise them on thinking about products? Just framing the entire company. Yeah. Where do you have them start? I guess I've always sort of said startups need a strong vision. So you do, and it sounds fluffy and known know people want to start writing code on day one but um there's a sense that you need to have a good strong sense of purpose for your company and that that it's so important for hiring and for like keeping everyone aligned and stuff as well you need to have like to have everyone on the same page you need a page you know um so i think like oftentimes i think people start maybe two or three steps down the path so they might say like you know a lot of people email themselves to do's i'm gonna fix that and i'm like okay i i and i can see how you might have had a brilliant idea like specifically around that but it's kind of like what's the bigger landscape that this sits in like are you trying to change productivity you know what's your what do you believe about productivity that no one else believes you might be like oh i believe it shouldn't be siloed or i believe it should be a part of everyday life or i believe that you shouldn't be able to take on more than one thing at a time whatever i'm like okay well so then so we're going to form the basis of a philosophy for you and your problem domain and then we're then we'll work out what pieces do you think you can uniquely uh productify if you know what i mean like you know as in program program and you know codify and then that will form the basis of your product and maybe that happens to look like your tool that looks like an email client but it's actually to-do list maybe um but like let's take a step back first so that's kind of the first conversation i try to have is kind of like let's just appraise the whole environment here and work out what unique thing are you saying um and like when people pitch me on like a new weather app or whatever i'm like but like what's your belief about weather and i go and they're like well i just think they all look ugly and i'm like okay so you believe that beautiful weather will do what and they're like i just like designing weather apps man and i'm like i thought that's what it was so like maybe you shouldn't be raising around uh so that's the kind of the like the base the platform then yeah the next piece i would say to people is like you have to find you know be really wary of solving a small rare problem you can solve a big problem uh you can solve a rare problem uh sorry you can solve a small problem fine a rare problem fine but small and rare is just it's it's never works i've never and these products can be effing beautiful right but what i mean by this is that basically like problems in your life right are big or small okay a big problem might be like hey me and seven of my friends want to book a group holiday to alaska and we have to do blah blah and this is a whole big project i'm only going to do it once a year but it's a big enough thing okay fine you can probably build a product around that and probably make some money because there's enough value it's a big enough problem in your life that if we can fix it you'll pay some money or we'll take some commission or something right um so that's the size spectrum then there's things that happen every year or things that happen every day and uh and the things that happen every day typically like uh you'll have a lot of engagement so the product will bury its way into your life uh however if you have something that no one really cares about that often uh sorry no one really cares about and they don't have that problem that often um let's say over the last two years there was a large amount of apps that are all now defunct uh they were saying you know the way mark andreessen splits up his tweets we'll help you do that and they designed these like typographically stunning products as in anyone who looks at this like yes that is a beautiful product it's a perfect piece of product it solves a very rare problem uh that that is very small in nature and uh and that's the extreme case but there are versions of this like um uh you can imagine loads of b2b things that happen occasionally and not that not that big a deal uh then on the other extreme you've got like problems that occur all the time and are pretty big uh workplace communication you know uh charging your customers money uh talking to your customers right it's like big problem and you do it every all the time they're like the places where like the slack stripes and intercoms whatever can play like it's like it creates that sort of you know no one ever you know no one ever you know threatens to like idly like oh i guess we're going to change platform provider or whatever payment provider it's like no you're not you're locked in yeah um so like i you know that's the next piece which is i think people can and you know intercom might have been responsible for this. I think we deified product so much that people just thought if you have a great product, that's it. The product itself will match with a problem. Great products match problems. Does it match with a big problem or a frequent problem or ideally a big frequent problem? That's the next big test. I think a lot of startups fall down there when they're like, oh, we sync your Facebook to your instagram and we can do x and y and then it spits out a shopify app and i'm like yeah i i just don't see it being a problem that often in someone's life so uh so that's the kind of the next wave then there's other like little philosophies i'd say is like like if you're going to charge it not a lot of money it needs to be self-serve and it needs to be entirely frictionless for the users and and i see a lot of people get what i call like fake traction where like they handhold a lot of their early customers like doing the like the yc famed like call us an install type thing but they actually don't have a bridge towards a world where that can't where that isn't necessary and i'm trying to say like if you're going to spend 30 minutes talking to every single customer who needs to install and you've no bigger picture as to how you're not going to be necessary you need to be charging more than nine dollars a month yeah and uh and that's just you know it sounds obvious but you'll find a lot of people um like who have a very high let's call it an adjusted uh customer acquisition cost right when you factor in the founder involvement and all that they have a high cac and they literally have no no plan to get away from it and yet they have traction because they can point to like the nine grand a month that they're making working yeah exactly but it's just it's not scalable you know and that that's another sort of dangerous area I feel is that people can and another example this might be like my product's kind of good but I actually layer in a lot of free consulting time with me. So this is like, hey, I've built a way to automatically email your customers. And as part of the service, I'm going to jump in and write all your emails. And I'm like, well, that's what people are buying you. You're a consultant. You're like, no, I'm not. I'm a software provider. And I'm like, that's not how it works. Yeah, it growing so like something entirely new how do you think about that in the context of you know frequency rare small big yeah so i think you know it's it's i wouldn't say essential but it's really really useful if you're selling into a growing market but everything i still said i still needs to apply right so like the addressable market is is kind of one variable in the formula here but ultimately like uh if it's a small rare problem uh it's still like you could have a billion people in the addressable market it's still the fact that small and rarest it means that they're very uninclined to pay any real money because like the fact that they're in a market doesn't change how much money they have right um so so like that's one problem you have there and then the usual uh knee-jerk reaction of how we're going to get out of this is oh well we won't charge users we'll go with ads instead and i'm like but the ads won't work because if it's a rare problem they're not going to launch the app or they're not going to visit your page all the time so you don't have the engagement to get the eyeballs to get the actual like the revenue for your publishers so um or for your advertisers so like you know it you know in some sense you you know it is you know in some abstract sense possible to have a product that all of the world uses like seven billion people use but if they actually don't care about it at all it's not not important in their lives they could take it or leave it and on top of that they can take it or leave it once a year when the actual problem occurs it's just not going going to work. Yeah, they're never going to pay you enough. So there were a couple of questions about Intercom specifically in your future goals. So what are, so Fosse Bear on Twitter asks, what are your top two growth initiatives for Intercom in the next two years? So I have to like, you know, I'd love to ask Fosse Bear what exactly the definition of a growth initiative is. I guess the things I'm keen to do over the next two years is get our marketing to a place where we are comfortable being slightly more direct. I think we've done a really good job from a thought leadership perspective of getting the attention of a lot of people who should use this B2B and B2C. But I think we need to learn to be more direct and upfront about, say, the ROI of Intercom. And I think that's an area where we have a lot of maturing to do like intercom helps all sorts of businesses you know deliver like multi-million dollar results um but we never tell anyone that we're we're telling people like you should love your users and treat them really well and good things will happen to your business and that works it's true it's true right but uh like you know i think at some point uh as you move up through the market, the onus is on you to say basically businesses at some scale care about two things, how much money they spend and how much money they make. So when you try to pitch them something, they just say, hey, here's my two numbers, which one of these are you changing? And I think when we show up and we're like, well, if you love your users, you're gonna stick around, we're like well if you love your users you're going to stick her and they're like don't care about any of that are you going to make me money or save me money and we need to get better at answering that question and we need to have better evidence to answer that question we need to surface more case studies and we we have all the material we just need to be more intentional i think about being upfront about that value so that's one whole area that i'm quite invested in. And the second one for me is the Intercom brand is quite big. We had 1,200 people show up to our event here on Wednesday. We've had 6,000 people attend our tour. We have obviously a widely popular podcast, books, blogs, et cetera. But a piece I'm keen to do is kind of connect the dots a little bit better between Intercom, the content phenomena of sorts and an intercom the software and uh and that's so that's something else i'll be working on i don't know if that qualifies as a growth initiative i mean it's a challenge that we have too right because like we have things like hn you have this podcast you have our youtube channel and i was just talking to michael seibel yesterday like you know where we've doubled our youtube channel in like six months and that's awesome how many of those people know what yc is totally yeah it actually works exactly no and like we have that like um you know i think a lot of brands get stuck in this sort of ambiguous place where like people know them and love them but when it comes to shopping for software or shopping for incubators they just don't see them in that way you know and uh and i think that's a that's a challenge like you know as in you it could well be i i would i'd hope it's not but it could well be the case that there are like hundreds of thousands of people who really love yc uh but they when they go shopping for the incubator they're they'd rather go to their local incubator shop or whatever and like and it's because no one's you know it's it's because almost you know in both senses intercom yc maybe you've been a bit too demure or standoffish okay come to us when you're ready but we're not coming to you you know like and uh and like maybe that suits the brand maybe it doesn't but like uh but i can see how it's a challenge uh on your side well because on i mean in large part we're just making stuff that we want and at least me i don't really consume the super sales forward content and even like blogs and podcasts that are all about throwing their brand down your throat i just like i'm not into it i unsubscribe i just get out of it so for me that's a thing but then on the other hand i'm like okay there has to be some growth strategy here but you're precisely you're the director of marketing You do want to think that you're actually doing something as well, right? So, and like, yeah, there's a really interesting spectrum, right? That I often talk to people about when they're like, you know, in the early stages of a startup. Like if you were to say like, let's say Y Combinator's product is the actual incubator, right? It's cash for equity in high potential startups uh if you were to literally only invest on making sure that everyone knows about that uh you'll become known as a type of bank or something like it'll be like oh why come here the financial model you know like uh and if you really drive for that then what happens is everyone forgets about everything else and and you don't appeal to people under any other grounds whatsoever it's just a goal if you need money go to them and that's actually not your message right oh no that's it is because then we'd be a commodity which is the worst case precisely right so and your and your value prop is 50k for 8% or something right like yeah and and then then the very second you quantify it all like that someone else can be disabled we're 60k're 60k for seven percent and now you've just lost the fight because you've made it so quantifiable and you've taken brand and all that sort of stuff out of it that you've basically sowed the seeds your own destruction on the other extreme right you can have like why accommodate the global phenomena right like we're we barely tell you that we do anything other than just evoke magnificence and like the the challenge there is then like you know you, you're so abstract that no one actually realizes what you do. And like there are genuine, there are many like big brands that have become, they've spread themselves. And I hate to pick on people, I hate to pick on big brands, but they stand like, you can think of some of the huge consulting houses or whatever, like or some of the huge software firms. Like no one really knows exactly what they do, but everyone knows who they are, right? And I think that's no use either, right? Becoming one of the biggest brands in the world that no one can kind of explain for a moment what the hell you do or becoming one of these people that's so associated with your product that you can never do anything else except for your product. Yeah, absolutely. And like, so an example I see is like, you know, someone pitches me on like a startup and it's like, oh, we're, we track tickets for help desks. And what are you called? Ticket tracker. And I'm like, okay, you do realize that you're basically saying over the next 10 years, you're only ever going to track tickets. Is that, is that like, are you comfortable having, like, I can see how the value is strong for you today because no one's going to ask you what does ticket tracker do right and no one's going to take a tracker what's the you know what do you really sell uh but like you've sowed yourself the seeds of your own the sort of destruction because you can't grow that brand in any way you know uh it's you know if you're like you know hotels.com what do you do oh we sell okay that's cool but now you see like hotels.com and we also sell flights and you're like huh yeah totally so like it's it's hard to expand a brand that has a high degree of specificity it's hard to convert a brand that has a high degree of ambiguity and that's the sort of spectrum that we dance in you know and what are those how do you connect those dots effectively and in a way that makes sense for your users or would-be users yeah so like first of all it's like finding the point on the spectrum that you're comfortable like as in so like intercom you know at its core like you know the idea is it's an Intercom. It's like, you want to talk to people, right? The logo is like eyes and a mouth. You can see and talk to your users. And our mission is to make internet business personal. So that's kind of like, we've picked a relatively abstract point, as in another version of Intercom would have been called website messenger. And we would struggle then to sell marketing software or something you know so i think for us it's like finding the the right level of abstraction such that we can you know the brand umbrella can kind of cover all of your needs uh all of the things you want you might want to do and to do that right like and this is something i would advise all people to do you need to read up on concepts like brand architecture and understand the difference between an endorser brand and and like i say primary brand and you know what's in between a branded house and a house of brands and all that sort of stuff that's all like really worth doing uh and then when you've done all that then it's like okay so if you're deliberately going for a slightly bigger thing right you know you could be selling like cheapflights.com or you could say aviate we will take you to your destination right and you have to like work you know so av8 is a harder one to convert cheap flights.com is a harder one to expand so you find your level uh and then it's that tells you the starting point in your funnel so our starting point is anyone who has an internet business right so so from that point of view job one create an audience of people who are interested in internet businesses and their problems. And then job two is then sort of specify into the problems Intercom solves. So we primarily solve go-to-market type problems. So it's like sales, marketing, and support software. That's basically where Intercom plays. So talk about the problems for those people. We also talk about product problems just because it's an easy way. Because basically in early stage startups, everyone does everything. So it's usually the product person is also the marketer. Yeah, totally. So then we sort of start building the, first of all, grow the audience. Then you get the specificity by like talking about specific problems. And by the way, I say talking and my mind goes to content, but it's worth saying this can be media campaigns. It can be ad buyers. It can be sponsorships of events. so they're basically pushing out the messages that you want and ultimately get people to the landing pages that represent the things that you want to sell and then obviously try and convert them or and start talking to them and say hey what were you shopping for like uh this is probably the thing we did most in early days intercom when someone signed up would be like out of curiosity what did you think you were getting when you bought an intercom and it was a great question because because it helps us unravel a lot of stuff. I see someone had a question here about David Coffey asked about why did we split up our product into like, we used to be just one intercom thing and now we're a suite of things. That was entirely a result of this. It was basically realizing we were selling intercom, but people were buying a help desk or people were buying, and this is back to Karen's point earlier, build what you sell, sell what you build. So we're like, okay, some people love intercom because it's a great way to support your customers. And that's one of the most visible use cases on it. That's why you see it in all the sites. And when we meet them on our website, we need to let them find the thing they want. So if job one of that is, import a CSV of all your targets and we'll set up some campaigns, you're like, dude, I came here to support my users. This is a lot for me right now. Yeah. It's like you need to talk to those folks over marketing. I'm just trying to support people. Yeah. So what we actually did, what we ended up doing was we split up our product into the things we knew it was used supporting your customers and marketing to your customers. And that let us be really much more specific about when we could pitch Intercom and then we could say, here's what Intercom does for support teams. And then if you sign up for the support product, we could say, okay, here's the onboarding steps for support. And we wouldn't talk to you about marketing at all because you're not a marketer. In the old world, we were trying to like charge you and get you to use everything at the same time so we seemed kind of expensive and also we were trying to like it was like a 12-step configuration because we you had to do everything and that actually made sense when we were talking to two-person startups and stuff way back right but these days we're generally talking functions not whole companies um so so we had to kind of help people find the exact sort of their own home within the product so that's where we split the product up and that's and that that comes back to that question of like as we got more specific we had to get you know have give every single person who's shopping for a different thing their own tailored experience to find the exact part of intercom they need yeah and so when someone is shopping on your site what have been the things that have been most effective in actually converting them right there um we we haven't done a great degree degree of like a b i mean there's a certain amount of your listeners are going to want to hear well green buttons work better than red craig did you know but like 400 shades of blue yeah yeah um i think the stuff that we found useful has been uh unbundling our pitch into the specific ways in which it's bought that's been huge and you can actually see like um um, if you look at say, I think Stripe's homepage does that pretty well these days. Like they're, they can sell you marketplace or they can sell you a Sigma or radar or connector. Um, similarly we were like, you know, are you in the sales and marketing side of the org or in support of marketing org? Uh, and if you're in sales and marketing, we'll, we'll get you with a pitch that works for that and if you're in support we'll talk to you about like why you should love your users and how we'll increase your mps and all that and um making those sort of switches rather than trying to sell this holistic mishmash that it's kind of you end up in this like one size fits none phenomena right like um so i think getting more specific and getting us a website that enables us to be more specific about our value propositions for different people was probably the biggest useful thing. The second biggest useful thing with Dan, I think, was tailoring and iterating the hell out of our actual onboarding for the use cases you're buying. So all paths don't necessarily have to go the same direction for somebody to become a customer of yours. For some people, they might want to install JavaScript. Other people might want to just import their customers and start from there. And we've had great success finding the right ways in which the right types of people can get onboarded to be successful with Intercom. I'd say we probably, over the years of experimentation, we've probably doubled or trebled our actual conversion rate through things like that. Wow. How many times have you iterated on the sounds? Not enough. Okay. Yeah, not enough. Honestly, it was something I was thinking about recently. We've been talking about the Messenger a bit lately. And yeah, it's weird how audio doesn't get discussed in a software enough because it's not part of the wireframes, if you know what I mean. It doesn't, you know, like you don't have the sound producer in the room with the designer. Yeah, it's just an icon for a sound. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, precisely. So no, you're totally correct. It's something that's on my mind. There's a general sort of tension between like how identifiable we want Intercom to be versus how customizable it is. And that's another spectrum you have to work out with your users. Like people often want to customize the intercom launcher and we generally support them in doing that. But then they want to customize the messenger. We sort of support them in doing that. But then they want to customize specific bits so that it's barely intercom anymore. And at some point you're kind of like, whoa, I didn't realize I care about this but we actually do have some beliefs about how it might make it terrible yeah there are plenty of sites where you're like where the hell is that sound coming from why are there bells ringing right now why is there a video auto playing and all that sort of shit right yeah yeah yeah that's the worst um so i'm curious about you in the future what's coming next for you as your role at intercom changes um i would guess you know we're at a scale now where uh in general as startups grow you move from like swiss army knives to scalpels right so like yeah so and i was historically like a swiss army knife with one particularly pointy blade for product um but that was useful because it meant i could go and bounce around and and take take on different portfolios of things and generally bring them up to some level and then learn enough. And then we could bring in somebody who actually knows what to do and that person would inherit. You haven't burned the house down. Yeah, exactly. And maybe I've got the bait. Maybe I've put out the immediate fires and I've sort of set the stage for like someone to come in and do some real work. But I think we're at a scale now where um and maybe i'm unnecessarily optimistic but i think we have like you know good people leading all the functions so i think there might now be a a time for me to maybe retreat to an area of of uh actual ability which maybe looks like me going back to the product order uh but we'll see i mean intercom has never failed to surprise me with the areas uh which it can produce new problems for me, let's say. So then if you weren't working on intercom, what would you work on? I did answer this once before, and you referred to it earlier. Here's two problems I think about a lot. One of them is simple. It's soccer is without doubt the biggest sport on the planet um sorry super bowl fans uh it's huge uh and it is literally the sport technology is left behind and i think there's a lot of reasons for that a lot of them are kind of societal or a lot of cultural um you know nerds and sports tend not to go together america and soccer tend not to go together as an example sorry about the recent world cup sorry everyone yeah um so uh but there's a huge opportunity there like piracy in soccer is i would say at like the levels pre-itunes if you remember in the music industry right like there are like there is an equivalent of kazaz there are many of them and no one's doing anything to solve it uh solving it would be a very complex piece of work because a lot of it isn't programming a lot of it would be actual code but there'll be a lot of deals and a lot of business partnerships and all that sort of shit right and it's not a guarantee like espn won't get their shit together or something like that right but like i can imagine like a spotify for soccer right as in hey i want to watch that game that happened last night i should be able to watch it i'll pay but it's not even possible for me to watch a game that happened yesterday it's just not possible like literally not possible today uh so that's how backwards it is um and i think that needs to get fixed so i think someone should fix that i think the opportunity is big the market's huge so that's one another one is i think no one has really taken a harsh look at like uh uh let's just say pensions and retirement funds and stuff like that like as in there's a company in new york called lemonade that took a really really nice approach to insurance for property it's a bot basically you talk to it and you can get you can literally insure your house in new york in like five minutes just through you know chatbot basically i think that's an example of like tackling a real what what has historically a lot of paperwork and a lot of fucking around uh and turning into a relatively simple flow and making it work i think that model and i'm not saying chatbots aren't the thing here so much as drastic simplification is the thing and what the q a maybe suggests that a chatbot might be like charming and there's a way to do it or like at least unique from a brand perspective but i think there's a lot of areas like that you know where uh car insurance is another obvious iteration but like anything to do with like a mortgage application like you know like i think there's a lot of areas that are rich for like drastic simplification that people turn a little bit away from because of what paul graham would call like the schlep work side of it like you know it's it's easier to build a recipe app frankly than it is to go and talk to banks about saying i want to reduce mortgage creation to like tree taps you know um but i i you know i i think they're like obvious areas what i would have to offer up front is is that I don't feel a drastic passion in any of those myself, but there's something I could get excited about. When I say I don't feel a drastic passion, what I really mean is, I remember I talked earlier about having a strong vision for the space and all that. I can jump to a chatbot for mortgage applications, but I actually need to take a step back and be like, what do I actually believe here? And it's that i believe i guess maybe like the finance should be liberated of the bureaucracy that's being inherent in the industry for so long you know but like i need to go and draw that whole landscape and then be like am i excited to put another decade of my life onto something like this yeah because like intercoms you know or the intercom story has taken a quarter of my life so far and i've enjoyed it but like yeah you know if i know, if I was ever to do something else, you know, I now know how many, how high of a filter I have to apply in order to say yes, right? But it's a huge problem. I mean, I suppose many of these are rare in your lifetime, but they're gigantic. Big, yeah, big, rare. That's a great point. It's a great application of that, yeah. Yeah, and I think the incentives also aren't aligned. The companies are incentivized to make it complicated because they exist on fees. I think that's why Vanguard was such a success. Precisely, yeah. Ready? Index fund. You're done. You're totally correct, yeah. So I think there's a simplification model there and the efficiencies you get by not having to go through all the bureaucracy, you could share that saving with the user in a sense. There is an opportunity there. I'm very confident of that. But yeah, there's a bit of calculus you'd have to do to work out where you're going to make your money and what's the best way to do it, etc. I think that's a whole category of startups that are just now in the past couple of years being attacked because in the past it was like, I'm going gonna just make developer tools and stuff it's just yeah if it's just me and my editor it's a lot easier right like um what is interesting is that the people probably best positioned to do it don't necessarily have the programming skills so like there's there's an i could imagine a world where like some universities this area we're gonna have our mbas meet our engineers and we're gonna throw a load of problems near and we're gonna see what the fuck happens uh and i could see that working i don't you know i wouldn't realize um i think the last question i have for you is you've written all this content over the years you've you know done podcasts intercoms like all over the place what's the favorite your favorite thing that you've ever made like me i mean like so obviously i'm supposed to say intercom i can hear my fucking comms team in the air already saying intercom. It's a product. It's not just a product. It's like it can be a blog post, a podcast. Yeah. We're going to assume you like intercom. Yeah, for sure. Okay. So let's just take that off the table. I guess for me personally, isn't the thing that will be a seven minute talk uh in boston maybe five years ago six years ago called product strategy means saying no okay and um it has kind of been like i'd say probably like it's definitely the most popular talk i've ever given because it's seven minutes um and uh and i think it was funny uh it was done in the style where like the slide no control over the slides and they changed every 15 seconds that was one of those so yeah and uh and so i it kind of forces you to be a little bit dynamic and entertaining but it came out pretty well it was shit in rehearsal i was convinced it's gonna be terrible but it came out pretty well when i actually performed it for real and uh i think it kind of it you know it raised my profile substantially as a sort of public speaker and I kind of sowed the seeds of a lot of future things like I got to speak at like you know 8,000 person events and stuff since then but um but I think that was probably that's probably the one that I look back on and sort of chuckle about because it wasn't like I had I intended that to happen but um but kind of forced into a corner like i've always been um my my makeup is that i my i'm better under time pressure than i am under like like longitudinal sort of abstract projects or whatever and that was when i was shit i have to do this thing in the next seven minutes you know it's like let's just get going just turned it on and i kind of backed into a corner uh that was what i produced and i i look back at that now and I kind of, I find memories of it. That's cool. Yeah. We'll link up to it then in the, in the podcast. There's a blog. Yeah. There's a supporting blog post as well, but yeah, it was definitely some of the, some of the more fun stuff I did. Awesome, man. Well, thanks for coming in you