 We should start by talking about what David has brought. Oh, yeah. This is different than a normal podcast. Yeah, so I bought a selection of my favorite edibles, which my wife makes. They're called Mellos. I've also brought a bunch of flowers. I figure we would be able to smell a lot of different flowers, so you can get the terpene profiles. I think it's kind of like when you do wine tastings. So I think that's important. I'm really into terpenes. I bought some body rub, some oils that we can talk about, some live resin, and also a pre-roll. And a lot of these products are all available on the market today. It's about kind of showing you kind of how the evolution of the consumer experience has been. I've got it at the Green Door, which is right around the corner from this office. It's one of my favorite shops to go to. Do you distribute any of these products? Yeah. Northern Emeralds, I was actually just talking to Cody this morning about it. We help with Northern Emeralds distribution. We actually just talking to Cody this morning about it. And we distribute, we help with Northern Emeralds distribution. We share an office with them actually over in Oakland. We've tried working with Papa and Barclay, but I think they do their own distribution. So a lot of these brands do their own kind of self-distribution. But then oftentimes a lot of smaller brands or boutique brands will often ask a third-party distributor to help out. So that would be us. Interesting. Yeah so since you guys have gotten into yeah let's break it apart. Let's open some of these. So this one is called blueberry cruffin. I got this particularly because it just smelled really good. It has this like like really sweet nose. Whoa. Right? Yeah. So like you'll get this like really sweet nose. Whoa. Right? Yeah. So you'll get this like crazy blueberry-ness to it. This is Northern Emerald's Gelato. You're going to get like kind of a cheesy, musky, you know, type of smell there. Right? Here we go there. And then this is the Volcano. Oh, yeah. smell there right here we go there and then this is the falcona oh yeah so this is more of like the the lemon it's called orange zest but you get that like citrusy feel and like when you smell flowers that have that citrus feel you get way more of that uplifting energizing head high head high really so that that signals what strain it is yeah and the effect for sure usually it's like sativas have more of like a head high like citrusy lemony kind of like uh aroma to it um and that's kind of just like the the terpene profile which is basically just like what you imagine is like a flavor profile for weed. And then the indica, on the other hand, is more of like, I think people normally remember it by saying like indi-couch. Basically, it's, you know, you slip into the couch and you just get really lazy. It's more of the body high. And yeah, I think indica and sativa are like the ways that people typically like to categorize and like hybrids um but then at the end of the day there's so many different varieties of strains that um and nowadays with the cross breeding of all them everything seems to be somewhat of a hybrid um a strain right yeah and does the the strength of the smell indicate its potency in any way or is that just freshness indicate its potency in any way or is that just freshness not really i think um you so a lot of these have their thc percentages now so if you look on the labels you'll see how potent it is so this one says 27 no cbd uh this one is your live resin this has 65 thc so it's gonna be way stronger this is your and because this is a resin you're gonna see like you see all that's been extracted control yeah this is like basically all the trichomes have been put taken from the flower all of the cannabinoids are extracted and put into this resin and so this is what people use for dabbing yeah yeah yeah which is super strong right so pretty strong how many milligrams of thc would be in that so this says 650 milligrams it's a lot yeah so that's like concentrate yeah super concentrate yeah yeah yeah okay right and so for for the amateur what do you guys recommend? So like, uh, I mean, like five milligram edible. Is that what you're talking? Yeah. So this is, this is like, that's five, right? These are five. Those are fine. Yeah. So this is like, thanks. Yeah. There, this is like a brown butter, sage, black sesame, cookie, right these are like gourmet low dose and that's what kind of the new consumer is going after right they're not trying to get blitzed on a dab i mean that's gonna yeah right but there are consumers watching those instagram videos though oh yeah yeah i i cannot compete yeah there are people literally doing like two three gram dabs full dabs oh my god and just like fully caled yeah and they're just like all right cool you know go walk the dog now yeah but like for for what we're seeing in the market new consumer you know wants to do more microdosing really yeah so you know microdosing i think has revolutionized how i think about you know know, cannabis consumption. Yeah. Right. Because, you know, we never knew back in the day what you were really getting, right. You just were like, all right. Yeah. You just show up at the store. It's green. It's good. Right. But now, you know, the consumer can understand how many milligrams it is, smell the profile, understand what's within it, and then kind of build their relative scale on how it affects them. Yeah. And most people, you know, when they get too paranoid or they get a little bit like anxious, they just did way too much, right? They have to just, they're just way sensitive. So dial it back, keep dialing it back until you can then add a little bit more yeah right and then see how you feel and what does the market look like these days now are more people buying edibles since it's become legalized in california i think well at least from our standpoint as a distributor the higher velocity items and the higher volume items that flow through the market are just like flower and pre-rolls still, just because that's kind of the most common like base of understanding of what wheat is. And so people generally buy a lot of, you know, these single pack pre-rolls and it depends on the market as well. So if you're in the middle of a city, people will buy smaller quantities just because there's a lot of tourists and they like, you know know want to walk into a dispensary these days when they come visit san francisco uh it's like part of their to-do list yeah um and then they'll pick up something small versus like if you're kind of this like brand loyalist in like a more rural area you'll buy a larger quantity like in denominators of eights or maybe even larger um and then edibles are a big part of it as well. And I think it's typically for the kind of newbie weed, I guess, experiencer. And they because they for I guess for edibles, the argument for that eventually being a bigger market is that, you know, for for people who haven't consumed weed before or smoked before, they have to kind of get their head around like two levels of friction one is just like smoking first anything and then second the weed part but for edibles they eat anyway so you know this is just like one step away from uh consuming weed right yeah but they're like very granular dosing yeah i mean that was great for me when i started getting into this stuff yeah um but i just find that it's a completely different sensation anyway yeah it is yeah yeah you're metabolizing it through your liver it's more of a body high you are the onset takes a little longer too yeah with edibles you're looking at typically an hour maybe an hour and a half yeah there's some beverages, like California Dreamin, which is a YC batch. There's quicker. So their onset's quicker. The category that we see that's growing pretty quickly is the concentrate market, but through vapes. So here are a couple examples. I brought some eras. And then within each one of these, I have a different pod. So I carry around, you know, different pods for different feelings. This one is a forbidden fruit. So this is kind of like an indica. That's a little bit more of a, you know, chilling out type of strain. You have the over here, ACDC.'s a it's a cbd strain so when i'm not looking to get really high but i'm looking to you know take the edge off a little bit that's why i really turn to cbd often that's probably the cartridge i switch out the most and then i have this nina simone here which is uh or sorry nina limone limone uh which is a sativa. And this is from Legion of Bloom. This is way more when I just want a little kick up. And what's great about it is I can take a little bit of a puff and it doesn't smell, it's discreet. And I think that's what people are looking for. That's kind of what the edibles do for people as well. They can just put it in their bag, they can eat it. Flower still has that smell. I love it personally, but there are people that have that stigma attached to it that have that, you know, oh, I don't want to smell like weed. It's dirty. Or my neighbor's going to find out or my landlord. Yeah. So it's, you know, I recommend if that's a thing, So I recommend if that's a thing, you can go with the concentrates or find a vape, like a Mighty from Stores and Pickle, where you can do a vape without combustion and it's not that smelly. And in terms of your market, your average customer for you guys in particular, is it across the board growing? Is there a certain segment where people are really taking it up like in terms of age or demographic the fastest demographic we're seeing and that is actually the baby boomers really yeah the they are coming in and they are you know they're replacing a lot of their prescription drugs um there's also this feeling of i don't want to feel old it's like a symbol of youth yeah right um which is super ironic because this is the generation that kind of brought us the war on drugs and supported you know this movement that for us you know dare they worked at there yeah right they worked they pushed dare right they were like you know they were kind of hippies or they knew about it but they kind of bought into this war on drugs mentality and it's you know funny ironic that they're coming back to this you know because of their health ailments and you know their feelings have changed which is good right yeah it's a positive direction and i think there's this whole kind of like uh like branding around like wellness as well for weed. Not just the fact that it gets you high, but also there's like CBD effects that kind of have medicinal properties or just herbal. Like it's kind of seen as somewhat of like an herbal remedy or, you know, something like that that helps your general day-to-day lifestyle. Can you break down CBD for people who aren't, yeah, in the know? Yeah, so I think it stands for cannabidiol I don't know how to actually say cannabidiol cannabidiol yeah um and it basically comes from uh you can actually derive it from two different plants like marijuana and hemp and so the hemp based CBD is legal and you can sell that anywhere um so you can get it at like Costco if you want I've seen like hemp lotion and like all that sort of stuff. But then there's also just like CBD products that are derived from marijuana that can be sold in dispensaries. And essentially what it is, is it's, you know, for I guess the layman, it's THC without the effects of getting high. And, you know, have like medicinal properties that essentially will reduce pain and it'll basically generally make you feel a little more chilled out and you know otherwise you won't feel too much of an effect of getting a high of THC okay the the crazy thing about CBD is if you look at you know I don't know if you watch that CNN special weed from Sanjay Gupta. He had a few years ago, but essentially CBD was really helpful for people with epilepsy and that had seizures. So there's a group called the Stanley Brothers on Colorado that are growing Charlotte's Web. And what's crazy is if you looked at the history of cannabis growing, a lot of it was bred for potency. It was also bred for smell, but people didn't really understand the science around what was in it. And so with the legalization of it, with the requirements of lab testing, they started finding other cannabinoids. And CBD, THC are two of perhaps hundreds of cannabinoids within the plant itself. So you're seeing research on THCV, THCA, CBN, CBG, all these different cannabinoids are helping people identify ways to help them in their life. And with CBD, especially if you just take it from hemp derived, especially if you just take it from hemp derived. The problem is there, you don't have this, what they call the entourage effect. And what, what that pretty much means is each of the cannabinoids kind of help each other with the effect. And so that's why when you look at something like pop and Barkley is like three to one. Yeah. And you're putting this on, you know, sore spots. It has a better effect than if you're just going to get a CBD lotion. Right. Okay. You kind of need one or another to balance it out. Yeah. Complement each other. Yeah. And like products nowadays, apart from just being strain based, as what you would normally buy back in the day, you're like, I'll buy some Blue Dream or some of this. And based on strain uh now a lot of products are ratio based or like effects based so um they'll have like higher thc content to lower cbd or um you know one to one or up to 10 to one and that's just driven by becoming more mass appeal right because the customer goes in the store and they're just like dude i want to feel this way like i don't know all this lingo yeah or is that not true i think there, I think the lexicon is, is continuing to build. I mean, a lot of people don't know. Yeah. And I think it's kind of like wine. Yeah. Right. Where you have your percentage of alcohol. Yeah. But then you have your tannins and kind of how, you know, how it smells. that next frontier is really going to be around the terpenes, right? You're going to have your THC and CBD percentages. But, you know, if you put this Red Congo against, you know, this lemon meringue, the smells are completely different. And you're going to feel a little bit different as well. And, you know, that's just how I've been human trialing myself. And so for stuff like this, like this rub, how do you derive the different uh strains or rather the cbd for instance like how do you pull the cbd out but not everything else yeah so there's a number of extraction methods now uh that's kind of bucketed into two categories you have solventless and then you have solvent okay so solventless is kind of like with mellows. She uses actually this gold seal red conga leaves through an ice water extraction. So it's basically you take the flower and you trim, you run it through cold water and ice, and then you sieve out the runoff into bags. And those bags produce hash. You dry it out and you have this hash that hasn't been, you know, extracted with anything else, but just water and some, some movement agitation. Then you have, you know, CO2, you have BHO, which is butane. You have alcohol distillation. And so they put the flour through there. They actually rip apart everything. They take away the terpenes, they take away the cannabinoids, and then they reconstitute it at the end of it to bring it back to what it is. And so when you look at something like a three to one CBD or THC to CBD, they most likely extracted it, probably CO2. They were left with different compounds. Then they measured it, see what the concentration was, and then they put it back to the ratio that they wanted. Got you. Okay. Now, so is Meadow making any products? No. Okay. Yeah. Meadow builds software for dispensaries, but we spend a lot of time with our dispensaries understanding the products, understanding inventory, helping them with compliance. And I think everyone at Meadow is pretty passionate about cannabis in general. Yeah. So yeah, we're very much software based and working with a lot of people within the supply chain. Okay. And Vincent, similarly, you guys aren't making anything. You're doing distribution. Exactly. So a company is called nabis and we basically do distribution like licensed distribution so we'll basically just move product at a wholesale level in the supply chain okay and what caused both of you to not get into manufacturing but the actual like higher level of the business uh that's a good question i think for me at least it was it's a pretty capital intensive side of the supply chain just because you need to buy all the equipment and machinery and have the expertise to produce everything yeah and that was not something that i was born with or came with um and so you know a lot of people who do manufacturing will essentially white label for a lot of other brands and you know for us like we actually had friends who were manufacturers who are manufacturers rather and that's a lot of the brands. And, you know, for us, like we actually had friends who were manufacturers, who are manufacturers rather. And that's a lot of the ways in how we kind of got introduced to a lot of the brands that we work with today. Um, so it distribution was a much lighter weight, um, kind of business for us to be able to start up. Um, but you did fundraise, right? We did fundraise. Um, we just closed a recent round, our seed round. Congrats. Thanks. Yeah. And it was quite different. It was quite an ordeal compared to tech or finance or any of the traditional kind of VC fundraising industries, just because we're a licensed entity. So we have a distribution license in Oakland. It's a type 11 distribution license in California. And it kind of creates a lot of friction as far as what investors feel comfortable investing in. Meaning you're going to have to throw a bunch of their cash at just getting a license from the get go? Yeah. So that was something we had to do. It wasn't too expensive. It was several thousand bucks to get the process done. But on the fundraising side, it creates a lot of friction just because for a lot of institutions that can write larger check sizes, they have LPs for their funds that basically they sign LP agreements that say, like, you can't invest in certain vice industries like gambling or alcohol or weed, of course. Yeah. Right. And was fundraising similarly difficult for you guys for meadow yeah uh well we went through yc right um which i think is an unfair advantage but we were the first company to go through um i didn't think they were going to accept us i really didn't who interviewed you we had kevin uh kevin hale yeah Kasser, and Carolyn. Oh, Carolyn Levy. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. It was 10 minutes of the most intense questioning. What did they ask you? Everything. Everything. I mean, we talked about the legal side. We are an ancillary business. Right. And we chose that because all of us have been in tech for a while have been building software and we just saw a need to build this uh the system that allows dispensaries to be compliant but also run their business effectively i mean 90 of the shops are our mom and pop uh right now in california so and they don't mom and pop right now in California. So, and they don't, you know, if you look at Prop 215 and where cannabis was, records were kind of considered evidence. So people didn't really keep records, you know, heavy records. Right. That's why you hear about companies, all cash, all cash, all records. And then coming into legalization, now you have to keep records for up to seven years. You have to keep tax records. You have to keep patient records. You have to keep everything from who's bringing in the product to who's touching it to how it's getting destroyed, everything. And then on top of that, you have to create a consumer experience that obfuscates all the complexity around the supply chain. And so this, consumer land, you can get a lot of stuff. It's more expensive than it was, which is definitely a negative. But you get a lot of selection. You get tested and all that stuff. So we just saw a need for it early in 2014. And when we applied to YC, you know, we ended up getting accepted. And fortunately, as this stuff was happening in Colorado, there are a lot of signs in other states legalizing as well. We knew California hopefully was going to go. We didn't know. We saw all their attempts that failed before. And then we did a pitch during demo day that tried to bifurcate the audience as much as possible. So that way, if they were interested in weed or cannabis, they would come talk to us. So what did you say? Yeah, a lot of it was like, hey, if you want to stand on the right side of history, come talk to us. We really did that. So I think there was this feeling of, okay, you have to kind of step forward with us in order to make this happen. Makes sense. And so when we did that, we got a bunch of interest. Did you have a lot of funds, or were they angels that could just spend their own money on whatever they wanted? For us, it was about half- half half like in terms of capital committed um like we we do have a lot of smaller check angels um just because they're the types of people that david just mentioned who are like forward thinking and they think this is kind of like the end of prohibition era the new age for weed and uh they're interested. A lot of family offices and then a couple of institutions here and there. Yeah. Yeah, and you? We had over 40 angels, right? How much money did you raise? We raised two and a half on 12. And so we came out of YC, it took, we didn't close it up all after demo day. It took probably around nine months. Wow. Just meeting with people. And we just had a rolling close. All on safes? All on safes. And also, it's not like, hey, we're building XYZ CRM and we're good to go. I think people had to get really comfortable with the context around cannabis first. And so there's a lot of meetings that were just like introductory, here's what's going on in the space. This is where we see the world. And then they had to kind of take that in and be like, all right, do I believe this? And if so, let's have another meeting. And then we kind of work through getting that investment. It is a lot of that. I feel like angels are generally curious. I think investors see profits and they see upside of all this. But then at the end of the day, like a lot of them are doing their diligence as well. So they like come talk to weed founders who are, you know, you know, working in the space and they ask them a bunch of questions about like the regulations, the licensing, how we view this industry moving and shifting forward. And then, you know, they go back to their homework, talk to some other cannabis people, and then finally come back to a decision. Is there one particular stat where you're just like, you tell it to the average investor and like, oh my God, you know, like how, how fast the industry is growing, for example. Like, I don't even know. Like, I know it's popular, but I have no idea how much weed people are buying. Yeah. I mean know like i know it's popular yeah but i have no idea how much weed people are buying yeah i mean for us we kind of say it's the end of prohibition in california and um i don't know if this is the case anymore but a couple years ago uh including the black market 80 of the cannabis in the united states came out of california so that was for us a great pitch because we were based and distributing california and are you wait are you guys distributing out of state? No, no, no. We are not. Just California. That's not happening in, right? Not legally. Not legally, no. No, no, not at all. Not at all. To be clear. That's clarification. To be clear. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah. kind of where agriculture is in california right you know most of our products are exported to the rest of the the country right yeah you know 70 of agriculture comes out of california right you know tech comes out of california culture comes out of california we're the fifth largest economy in the world right and so i think there's a lot that we have here especially because cannabis the medical cannabis movement started in san francisco uh in 96 with prop 215 so there's there's definitely a lot of history here i think um yeah you know as we're turning this thing over there's just i hope that we keep a bit of the culture and kind of what this thing meant but it's hard it is hard dude i think this shit's amazing yeah i love the choice i love the amount of choice i get when i go to the store yeah but um one thing i've been curious about since the i mean legalization but before that when i just had a medical card um why is there not like marlboro why is there not like one dominant edible company i mean you said like all these stores are mom and pop shops why is it not like you, you know, the CVS of cannabis? Yeah, I mean, I guess like for in terms of like brands, I think it's still so it's still fairly like fragmented. There are certain companies that are getting bigger and distributing a lot of products across California. But none are, I guess, fairly dominant. None are dominant in multiple states. And I think that's probably a lot of the reason why you don't have like a Budweiser of weed. But even in California. Yeah. Like why? I don't get it. Like why isn't there just one place? Yeah, I think there's just a lot of fragmentation in the market. And if you look at kind of how legalization has started in 2018, the entire supply chain has been reconfigured from what it was before. In the pre-2018, a grower can go directly to a dispensary, not have it lab tested, not have to go through a distributor or any of that. But now, with all the different licenses, a grower has to cut their harvest, give it to a manufacturer, the manufacturer then brings it, or the manufacturer has a product ready for the distributor to come pick it up. The distributor then has to get quarantined and then tested. And then after the test. For what? Just the compliance testing. So making sure like homogeneity, potency, any sort of additives, like all that checks out. Pesticides, micro bacterial. Yeah. Anything like that. And then once it's tested or approved, then, you know, the distributor brings it to the dispensaries. Okay. Yeah. And, you know, the problem that we're seeing in California, you know, we thought this was going to be a bumper year, harvest year. Right. It was like we expected this to be multiples bigger than- For context, this was the first legal year. First legal year. But last year, we probably did $3 billion in medical sales. This year, we'll probably do as much of that in adult use sales, and medical will be a fraction of that, maybe half a billion if we get there. a fraction of that, maybe half a billion if we get there. And so the problem is you have 33% of the state that has some form of local laws, and then 67% of the state that has no laws whatsoever. And because of that, you have this disconnect between state law, where you can get your permits, but you can't get a permit unless you get your local permit. And so for this legal world that we're in, it's not just the compliance side, but there's a lot of advocacy and legal work on the regulatory side on getting local approval, local permits. And now this is to grow or sell? To grow, to sell, to get distribution, anything. So you're saying, why isn't there this one you know huge brand it's because there's so many hoops to jump through yeah there's and the state's massive it's massive it is massive this is not like oregon right yeah it's just a massive state and then you have um a disconnect between areas that have licenses, areas that don't. And then people trying to get licenses in these areas, but being throttled because of local governments that haven't created those laws. Hmm. Yeah. And is the same thing is true in Colorado and the other? I mean, I assume California is the biggest state in terms of volume. Yeah. For sure. And then following that is Colorado or? Yeah, you have Coloradoado uh you have oregon um nevada is pretty nevada yeah there's a van it's pretty big yeah yeah okay and then canada what's canada's coming they just federally legalized so i think october 17th was it the date that um they're basically uh they passed the bill and now it's going to be fully enacted to be legalized across the country really yeah so that canada's make a huge play yeah yeah if there's a huge bet yeah we i don't know i think uh if you ask a lot of people in california cannabis like if they can name all these provinces a year and a half ago, you're probably like, uh, no. Yeah. Right. But now, you know, with Toronto, like Toronto's coming up, you have a Vancouver coming up, you have basically these companies that were privatized with the government. Yeah. And now they're opening it up with, uh, into public markets. Right. And now these huge, massive Canadian companies listed. And now these huge, massive Canadian companies that are listed got all this capital. And now they're investing it into their own operations, but now bringing that capital down into legal states like California. Yeah, yeah. Now, we've seen a lot of that as well. I think part of the whole consolidation pattern that will come, just because the market's so fragmented right now will be heavily pressurized by Canadian, like publicly traded, heavily capitalized companies, just because they're coming in and they're buying up pieces of licensed businesses in California and other states in the United States just so that they can have their stake in the ground for the future. Yeah. And so that's just to, you know, go back to why isn't there this massive brand? It's because there's no capital to write. Not only do you have all these hoops that jump through on the regulatory side, but there isn't there aren't there's not banking. Yeah. So this is the other thing. Right. Because the FDIC, obviously federal. Federal. Yeah. And it is not federally legal. So what do people do? For banking? Yeah. Well, it's kind of like a Band-Aid solution for everyone, I would say. There's small credit unions that will bank, cannabis companies. There's other banks. Some people just use big banks, but then they don't mention anything. And generally, people have, for licensed businesses at least, they have multitude of banks and they spread their cash across everywhere. Because you touched on earlier, more than, I would say for us at least, more than 90% of our transactions are in cold hard cash. And so we have safes everywhere as well as a banking solution. And how do you guys do it if you're doing delivery? Well, so we work with the dispensaries that do the deliveries these delivery operators collect cash on site so you place the order they come to you they you know give you the order you give them the cash you check your id make sure things you know uh on the up and up and then they take that cash bring it back to the dispensary and then and that's it and they just kind of go back and forth, right? It's not like an ice cream truck. Well, that's what's really interesting. Now it is allowed for the ice cream truck model. Coming into 2018, it was a hub-and-spoke model. Okay. And now we're actually in the proposed. We've had three different sets of regulations this year. Okay. This year? This year. Yeah. And then the proposed regulation. We've been in what we call emergency regulations land. Oh, okay. And then we have the proposed regulations that should be coming out in the next few weeks. And in this iteration, there was a proposed reg on allowing delivery operators to deliver anywhere into the state, even in prohibited areas, which is in contention with the chiefs of police, the League of Cities that California definitely prides itself on local control. So if that does open up, you'll have the ice cream truck model or the taco truck model, whatever truck model you want, that can carry up to $10,000 worth of product at any time to deliver anywhere across the state. Wow. How much do you guys carry? Massive amounts. In terms of how much we store in our locations. So we have two. We have an Oakland location. We have an LA location. Yeah. And probably at any given point overnight, there's probably about half a million dollars worth of product in there. And then flow through, there's just millions a week of product that doesn't sit there. It just kind of hits the inventory and then the next day it'll go out or something like that. And it comes in all shapes and sizes so a lot of it will come in packaged uh final packaged goods and then oftentimes it'll just come in big just like gigantic trash bags full of 20 pounds of just raw ingredient raw material flour basically seriously yeah what yeah it's not packaged uh no so are you guys packaging and the dispensaries we don't do packaging it's there's these there's co-packers in the industry or manufacturers who can do the packaging um but for us we we basically just take final packaged goods and deliver it to retailers that's our main business but as far as the licensing roles and responsibility goes um no one can move product between two different license entities without a distributor. So even if you're just like a farm moving your product to a manufacturer, you have to contract out a distributor or get your own distributor's license in order to move it. And the reason behind that is because I think the state government wanted to hold one license party accountable for all things like tax and legal compliance, to which the distributors were kind of the gatekeepers for all things like tax and legal compliance, to which the distributors were kind of the gatekeepers for all of these products before it hits the retailer shelves. And so we have to be in charge for compliance testing and making sure that passes, excise tax collection, cultivation tax collection, remitting that to the state. So it's not just money that we have to remit back to the brand. It's also money that we have to rem that to the state so it's not just like money that we have to remit back to the brand it's also money that we have to remit to the government so we are kind of just this like hub of the supply chain that all product has to funnel through before it reaches a consumer okay so and on that tax side i'm curious because what is the what's the rate 20 something percent the the cultivation tax is per per pound of either trim or full flower and that's uh you know 275 or 925 right yeah something like that yeah it's basically 150 bucks per pound around that and then the excise tax is 15 on the wholesale value and so the the and that's also taxed, again, at the retail level. So your sales tax taxes the excise tax on all the products. No, there's taxes everywhere. That's why the prices are high. Right. And for the most part, that upside is for the government? Like, are the farmers earning more now? No. No, everyone. I mean, that's why these products are just so expensive is because it has to be baked into that. I mean, we, we recently learned. So like if you wanted to, the city of Oakland, uh, pass these just city tax laws that are 5% of gross receipts of, uh, sales. So it's not just like 5% of your, uh, margin. It's like of gross receipts. So if you buy it at a dollar and sell it at a dollar you're technically just making nothing but then because the gross receipt's a dollar you have to give five cents to the government yeah so you lose the limit on this stuff because like the value is still so high yeah you know like i mean when i used to buy a 300 milligram bag i was like of gummies that would last me forever yeah i'm not eating 30 milligram gummies no no no pass out yeah um which fine or whatever um but now it's like i think 28 for 100 milligram bag and like do you guys sense that there's a lot of price sensitivity absolutely okay i mean i think that's where you know i was alluding to with the medical market being, you know, pretty much decimated. You know, the irony of legalization is that there's a lot of medical patients that have gone and turned to the illicit market for their products. Right. Right. You know, the people that are medical, they're not, you know, they need it as medicine. They're not there. Yeah. They want higher dosage. They want more value. Yeah Listen, they want higher dosage. They want more value. Yeah. And, you know, because they're eating it every day or every week to sustain their daily life. But because of the imbalance of prices on the legal market versus illicit, a lot of medical people have turned to the illicit market. They've gone back. Yeah. Yeah. I know. Isn't that crazy? Yeah. The state didn't see that coming? I think they did. I don't even understand the point of having a card anymore. There isn't, really. Except for higher caring limits where you want to consult with a doctor that really wants to give you a treatment plan. For most purposes, it's the same products that get sold recreationally as they do medicinally right yeah yeah because they're yeah yeah it's it's pretty complicated there was a dual supply chain in the beginning of the year an adult use and medical supply chain so if you were a producer and you were producing medical products you could only sell to medical people and vice versa on adult use. But then they combined it and now you have people that are like, well, there's probably going to be more throughput on adult use, so I'm going to create more product there. Yeah. But in order to get the state official card, if you get that, then you can get your sales tax exempt. But it's like $150 to get it. It takes a few weeks to a couple months to get. And then once you get it, it expires in a year. Yeah, dude, I haven't. I'm just like, what's the upside? I save like $2 or $3 or something. But I'm not consuming at that level. If you spend a couple grand a year on medicine, then yeah, it makes sense. But I think in today's society, it's really tough to kind of make someone jump through all the hoops to get it. Yeah. But the problem is it came down to, I think, tax revenue for the government. And unfortunately, i think the the the community that needed it most on the medical side are the ones that are the most disenfranchised from the whole process do you find that um people are very brand loyal or do they just shop around and not care um i think people are pretty open to like there there is definitely brand loyalty like papa and barkley makes these great topicals and oils and things like that. And then there's certain high-end brands like Dosist that makes these really great disposable vape pens that people love buying. But then I think there is a large part of it that people are just trying out new products as well, and they listen to what their bud tender says about them. Bud tender being like bartender, but for weed. And oftentimes a brand will go and the way that the bud tender learns about all these products is brands for as part of their marketing, they'll go into dispensaries and do demos for these bud tenders. And they'll just pitch them on things. So whoever has the higher marketing budget will go in and just buy out shelves for the dispensary like shelf space at the dispensary and they'll teach all the bud tenders um at you know all the major locations and that's what'll get pushed through the most man i need to get some recommendations from you guys because like the people that i talk to when i go to the store i think they're sampling a little too much yeah yeah yeah the. Also, there's been some pretty, I call it apocalyptic events this year where there's brands that have just been wiped off because of the regulatory side. So people that are used to getting a specific brand aren't getting it anymore. I think July 1 was probably the biggest thing that we saw. So July 1 was when they implemented phase two testing, which essentially was around pesticides and potency. And then people that couldn't pass it essentially were DQ'd from the market. Yeah, it was pretty bad. It was insane. There's videos. Well, because for compliance, you have to record yourself disposing of the product whether you burn it or smash it or whatever there's videos of dispensaries just like as evidence just like damaging all their products and just basically having this huge demolition day of like millions of dollars worth of product um yeah no a lot of a lot there was a huge shortage of supply in the market and like my it's interesting my phone number is listed on our license publicly so I kept getting called for like phase two compliant product and I was like I mean this is a huge opportunity for us as a distributor so let's go buy as much as we can yeah yeah but yeah generally speaking there was a huge shortage in the market wow so brands are coming and going. It's almost this brand rush that we're seeing. People are trying to create these different brands, try to get to different consumers. But the market isn't that sophisticated yet. And I'm talking about the supply chain, where you have people that do co-packing and co-manufacturing and create this IP. packing and co-manufacturing or like create this stuff this ip yeah and then oftentimes if you don't have a license you're kind of you're at the whims of you know people that do yeah and it's really tough from a business plan model to to have someone invest in you if you're just you know a brand yeah yeah so where do you guys see the market going then like we have all this regulation coming up like seems like a bunch of random question marks, but obviously you're raising money, you're in this business. What does it look like in five to ten years? I think, at least from where we're sitting, I think it'll probably be another few years before anything federally changes. And more and more states will continue to pass favorable regulations towards cannabis. So a lot of them will start out by decriminalizing it and then making it medicinally available and then eventually recreationally available. And then once enough states kind of ratify those laws, then I think then the federal government will eventually see a more favorable light as well as far as the legal side of things. as the legal side of things. But until then, the way we have to expand is, although we're currently in California, we actually have to set up a different legal entity in each state so that we segregate out our business so it's not interstate commerce and basically expand that way from state to state and then have a holding company that manages every other child company. So there's a huge cost of upkeep of your business as well on like a legal compliance standpoint security and it's just like licensing and and everything um that currently it's it's hard to build a business in this in this industry because there's also a shortage of capital too have you thought about getting capital from any of these Canadian companies? Are they investing in? Yeah, they are. I think they're more so seeing all the players right now as like pretty young. So they want to just like buy out companies here and there for their licenses. So they, we have seen some distribution companies at least get bought out by Canadian companies. And I think it's hugely just like, like stock packages and like the, the C levels will go join the company. And then the rest of the company kind of gets let go. And so it's, it's been, it's been kind of this like brutal M&A like climate right now. Yeah. But it does provide a lot, a lot of opportunity for, you know, small guys like us who, who can stay afloat. Yeah. And how about you, David, what do you think the market's going to look like? Yeah. I mean, I think in California and five years we're hitting what 2023, there is something that happens in 2023 with the laws that removes a one-acre cap. Right now, if you're growing, you have a one-acre cap that you can grow in. However, people have been doing stacking, so they get a bunch of licenses to stack. But once 2023 hits, unlimited size grows can happen in California. And so I think the small farmer is going to be in a tough position when that comes out. And so they're going to have to really think about their genetics, their terroir, where they're growing, communicate value to the consumer that buying from a small grower who puts a lot of love and attention and sustainable growing practices that the consumer can can buy instead of just these monolithic big crops um you know in five years i think i personally would love to see the entire country being legalized um i you know we're meadow you you know, we build, we, we, we, our goal is to build the best software for, for the industry. But more than that, it's about access for everybody that needs it. You know, even if you're a kid with epilepsy, you should be able to get your CBD oil in school to administer by a nurse if you need it. I think the things that we're at odds with right now is we're such a young industry that is standing on the foundation of advocacy, right? This was all about advocacy and patient rights and access and legalization to some extent. But it's like now with this industry model, you have the capitalization side. And with such a small industry that's essentially ceding a lot of ownership to the capital markets through either Canadian companies or other bigger companies that are a shelf or other bigger companies, you're at odds, you're playing a game that you're already kind of at a disadvantage from, especially from the OG people. I think it's going to be really important that people band together in order to kind of move forward, but you're already seeing alcohol move in with their investment in consolation you have rumors with coca-cola doing a cbd drink beverage right you have um constellation yep yeah so you have what are they uh they are the guys behind corona oh all right yeah right so more drinks alcohol pharma uh you're going to see tobacco. These are huge players that are seeing their market shares change because of cannabis. And so I think you're going to see a lot more M&A activity. You may even see it's feeling very frothy right now if you look at the Canadian markets. if you look at the Canadian markets. But because there's only so limited access to invest, that capital flow keeps coming. It very much feels like the internet.com bubble that was getting created. And sure, there's going to be a handful of winners, but my fear is that there's going to be a lot of people that are just out of the game. And then we're left with less selection. We're left with less operators that have built this industry and this movement. I think you're also going to see a lot more exporting globally. You're already seeing contracts being made with Canada and other countries. I think you're going to see a rise in Spain and Germany. They're going to be coming out and being bigger players. So, yeah, because I actually don't know, like, internationally in Europe, for instance, if you buy cannabis somewhere, where are they growing? Like, is that coming from California somehow? How's that working? Not yet. I don't actually know where they they get it from they must grow it locally i'd imagine or bring it in from somewhere in south america i think that there's a huge grow a lot of grow ops down there um canada too um yeah huh huh yeah it's interesting when you're talking about the advocacy side um have have things like high times and like you know cheech and chong um have they been more harmful or beneficial for the industry hmm i think on a raising awareness level it's been beneficial yeah um although sometimes the messaging isn't quite the, the level that we needed to be. Cause a lot of times just like funny memes or like some, you know, joke about just like your friends getting high. But I think it, I guess, you know, to a certain extent, it's a strategy to raise awareness as well, because that is what captures eyeballs. Yeah. And, and then, you know, high times does provide a lot of just like newsworthy articles about cannabis as well. So I think there's, there's kind of a lot of shift in media foot focus as well for high times and like herb.co and all these sorts of like cannabis media companies. Okay. Yeah. I mean, they're, they're definitely the, they're pioneers in this and getting the message out. I mean, it's hard to imagine the fear that people had and the stigma that surrounded this 10, 20 years ago. Yeah. When they're still publishing articles around home grows and Cheech and Chung coming out smoking a fat blunt in public. Yeah. Cheech and Chong coming out smoking a fat blunt in public. These are people that have helped push this thing with a segment of the market that could gravitate toward it. I think the problem was there are a lot of people outside that didn't necessarily want to affiliate with that segment of the population and became more stigmatized and more stereotypical as a stoner. But as we've been moving forward, the biggest news that we saw in the last month was Elon Musk taking a puff of a blunt, right? And so it's starting to change. You have Gwyneth Paltrow looking at stuff. You have Whoopi Goldberg partnered with on stuff so the the the figures that are stepping forward to represent cannabis are changing um or adding to uh this this movement and getting people more comfortable with it yeah but the stigma is still pretty high i just find it so silly man because yeah like so silly yes Yeah. The stigma is so silly. Cause I mean, I remember I grew up in Massachusetts, so like it was not legalized when I was in high school. Um, so, you know, we existed around all of that, but you know, obviously you knew people that were smoking whenever you're like, this is like such a crazy mismatch of media and reality. Yeah. And now I, I find it happening all over again with psychedelics yeah yeah um and that's why i thought michael pollan's book was so great yeah yeah because it was just like accessible and he's like kind of nerdy and skeptical yeah and people are like oh it's not just you know acid trips yeah yeah um and that's what i've been following so closely yeah to see the studies and if it's going to happen or not. Yeah. I was going to say, and the media plays a huge part in that. And I think it's really hard, at least for businesses in our industry, to get the word out because normal channels like Google AdWords or Facebook ad marketing and all these typical channels you would use to get your name or advertising out, they'll shut you down if you try to advertise that you're selling weed. And so, yeah, yeah. So how do you grow? Influencer marketing. So like basically having celebrities or like people endorse your products and going on, you know, kind of like newsworthy sources and outlets that those are like the high times um those are ways to get your your name out there yeah i mean i think that like when you look at the the psychedelic movement yeah it it's following the the medical piece which that's how cannabis started with prop 215 essentially what started with was the hiv community here in san francisco in San Francisco that found relief in cannabis. And we call him the fairy godfather, Dennis Perrone, who recently passed away. But he authored Prop 215, which allowed medical collectives to grow cannabis and share it with one another. to grow cannabis and share it with one another. And with medical, that provided that tip of the spear for people to then get in. And then people with HIV finally found a little bit more relief. And then other groups and other medical conditions happened with it. Epilepsy. Yeah, exactly. And then we look at the trials are going through with MDMA, it's really around PTSD for veterans, for people that are trying to come over some psychological trauma. They're having guided sessions and having a way to rise above what their current state of consciousness is. And I think, you know, my opinion, a lot of this, especially for cannabis, it's like grown in the earth. It comes- It's like a biological plant. It's like a biological plant. It's almost like, to me, it's a human right to have this. It's from the earth. It's not like someone made this. But I think what's crazy, especially in the world we live in with so much hyper connectivity, so much stress and like all the day to day, we need to find outlets to go inward a little bit more because there's just so much stimulation outside. And, you know, one of the reasons I love cannabis is that allows you to kind of have that. And then, you know on the the psychedelic side you know it's another leveling up um and a whole nother sense of awareness of yourself and and how you interact with the environment around you yeah yeah yes yeah it's awesome no it's fantastic i mean it's so cool that people are are now finally able to experience it in a safe way. Yeah. And in a dosed way, too, which doesn't really exist with psychedelics yet. But I imagine in our lifetime, that's going to be a thing. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. I don't know who's the bleeding edge on this. It might even be in the States. It seems like most of the funding and the studies are happening here. MAPS is a really good organization to follow. here maps is a really good organization to follow they're the ones that uh are really pushing the the trials and they're you know if there's people that want to fund the movement for psychedelics maps is a great organization to do that cool right on um so on the legal side i've been really intrigued by uh people being exonerated yes it's huge yeah it's amazing so what's like what's going on with that in california have you been following that part yeah yeah for sure uh i mean what's been great with legalization is that people aren't necessarily going to jail anymore yeah for for cannabis possession right um and another thing that's great is there's a lot of cities that had stacks and stacks of medical cannabis convictions that were coming and then just tossed them all out. San Francisco did it. There's a lot of other cities that are doing it. I think what you're also finding that people are realizing that with the war on drugs, with people that have been more disenfranchised, people of color in different communities, there's a sense of trying to give back with social equity programs. And so not only is there a decriminalization, but there's a movement on creating an on-ramp for people to get into the industry. Yeah. I mean, for us, we actually have a social equity partner for our license. And what that means is it basically just incentivizes us to help incubate, if you will, like a smaller like cannabis business that's run by a business owner who's been formally convicted of a cannabis crime or like lives in a certain area that is has been disenfranchised due to cannabis crime activity. has been disenfranchised due to cannabis crime activity. And so for us, we basically contribute to 1,000 square foot of rent for each month to one of the social equity partners, and that actually expedited our licensing process earlier this year. So the government actually is creating ways to incentivize businesses to help other businesses that are run by these disenfranchised folks in the past to help them get their operations up and running. Man, that's so awesome. Yeah. Yeah. There's definitely a lot more work that needs to be done. Well, there's a lot of it's funding, right? So Senator Bradford just had AB 1294 pass or SB, I think 1294 Pass, which is a $10 million fund, which will be given to different social equity programs to help jumpstart their business. You know, the issue that we still have is people, you know, you might have resources and rent, but you still need capital and know-how to kind of run through. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And, you know, we are, there's still a lot more that needs to be done in order to help, you know, this group to move forward in this industry, especially as other players in this game board have been leveling up. Yeah. Right, well, that was kind of the narrative, right? So you're just like, you know, all these people who have been put in prison for years, jail, whatever. And then like a bunch of white kids come in. And they're like, oh, it's legal now. Cool. And then they just win the game. Yep. Yeah. Right. And so, yeah, I mean, I don't know the legal situation as well as you do, but it seems like that is not figured out yet. but it seems like that is not figured out yet. No, no, not at all. It's not. Yeah, I mean, because you obviously like you apply to YC, you get some money and then you're off to the races. Off to the races, right? But, you know, you don't have incubators like YC really. You have, you know, the Hood Incubator, you have Supernova, you know, Hood Incubators based in Oakland. They're bringing some companies in, but they don't necessarily have millions and millions of dollars in the bank to fund people. And then you have groups in different cities that don't have unification around their programs either. But there's some interesting things happening. Within San Francisco, you're going to need to hire 30% of your workforce from social equity people. of your workforce from social equity people. You also, as a dispensary, may need to have a certain amount or certain percentage of your shelf space of products created and manufactured by people from social equity programs. So there's definitely still a lot of thinking around that needs to happen, but people are trying. And I think the key in all of this is for the consumer to really recognize that when they're buying one of these or even Flo Cana, Flo Cana supports artisan small growers up in Mendocino and Humboldt and Trinity's Emerald Triangle. So when you're buying Flo Cana, you're supporting a small grower. And that's why I think more, not just the knowledge of how to distinguish what is in cannabis and how it makes you feel, but who made it, why it was made, where it's coming from, all of those pieces need to be connected for that value proposition and why someone would pay, you know, X dollars more for this versus that. Right. Just kind of startup-y or there were there i mean because you've both done yc you you didn't go through yc with your current company not with this company sure um were there certain elements of like uh canonical startup advice that you found didn't always apply in the cannabis industry uh or do you just apply like the learnings and i mean i guess a lot of it did apply. Like I remember the whole like do things that don't scale thing. I, uh, when we first started this, uh, we had a friend who basically ran like a pre-roll company that was distributing across California and prior to regulation this year is very much just like a backpacking industry where people would deliver their own products to fulfill to retailers. so what uh me and you know my best friend june did was we just drove our like hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of product in the back of our cars across california from like oakland to palm springs and it was it was pretty romantic in a way um but yeah i mean it like part of doing things that don't scale, like that kind of helped us learn a lot about the industry, how products were being moved and like just meeting people throughout the industry as well. Um, so yeah, I think a lot of it does apply. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. I mean, I think, um, we probably every week there's some mantra that we're quoting either, you know, make something people want or do things that don't scale is great. And we often think a lot about resilience, right? That cockroach. Yeah, for sure. And, you know, survive and thrive mentality. I think one of the biggest things that helped us just to be a little bit more patient, even with all this activity is, you know, don't worry about competition, right? Competition will kill itself. You just focus on your team, focus on making something that people want, focus on talking to your customers. You know, but one thing I think that I've also taken and extrapolated is like build a community, right? One thing I love about YC is the community of entrepreneurs and the shared um you know alignment on how to build something and i think that's you know why we're working together yeah but you know to take that sense of community and kind of bring that within cannabis a little bit more yeah uh because there's just there's so much going on and finding people that are aligned and kind of can move forward and take care of their lane is super important. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Yeah. The advice has been great. I highly recommend anyone that's thinking about building a business to, to look at YC, especially for that advice and look at, you know, the videos or any or the podcasts. There's so much gold nuggets in there for people to listen to. Yeah, it's a good time. It's a good time to start a company. All right, we're probably going to have an Elon Musk moment if we don't stop soon. All right, guys, thanks for coming in. Cool, thanks, Greg. Thank you.