 I, like Kevin said, I'm going to talk about modern startup financing. I have only been practicing law for 21 years, so what's old and what's new only spans that time frame for me. But I've seen a lot of changes to the startup ecosystem. YC has been a big part of a lot of the changes to the startup ecosystem and the way that financing is done. So I picked this picture. These are called closing volumes. And every corporate lawyer who does private company or public company financing has a lot of these if they have been doing it for long enough. The legal teams used to get these bound volumes with all of the financing documents in them. They have our names on them and the date. So this doesn't happen anymore. But I just thought They have our names on them and the date. This doesn't happen anymore. But I saved some of mine. I thought this was a good picture for this. So a lot of you are going to already know what I'm about to talk about. But since this is startup school, I just want to give some basics. So you have a company idea. And the first thing you're going to do is form a corporation because it's a separate legal entity and it protects the founders from personal liability. We all know this. You can probably bootstrap it. You and your co-founders can bootstrap it for a little while but eventually you're going to want to hire or grow and you need money to do that. How do you do that? You can go ask your relatives for money. You can go to a bank and ask for a loan. Or what most startups do is they sell a part of their company to raise money. So when you, as founders, you guys will buy common stock. That's how you become owners of your corporation. And typically, you will buy common stock for a fraction of a penny. You may contribute some intellectual property as part of that purchase, but basically, you're going to be buying your stock and own 100% of it for nothing. You cannot raise a meaningful amount of money by selling common stock. So your option is to sell to investors a completely different class of stock called preferred stock. Preferred stock is more expensive. Before, another kind of basic thing, I never know what the, you know, what kind of terminology people know. So I thought it'd be really helpful to take a look at this. These terms right here, so first of all, financing and round, they mean exactly the same thing. Preferred equity financing, preferred stock round, preferred stock financing, Series A financing, Series C financing, these things all basically mean the same thing. It's fundraising by selling preferred stock at a calculated specific price per share. These terms, convertible round, note round, safe financing, we're going to talk about what the safe is, early stage round, early stage financing, these are all ways to describe a fundraising event where you're not selling preferred stock or common stock, you're selling convertible securities. Convertible securities are the right to get stock in the future. It's a thing that it's not itself stock, it converts into stock later. So I think that there are about three things that have changed a lot over the years. And the first one is structure. And by that, I just mean that the actual documents that we use for early stage fundraising has changed. And I'm going to talk about that more in a few slides. The other thing that is hugely different from the old days is access, because nowadays you can find fundraising documents online. because nowadays you can find fundraising documents online and you know they come with annotations and e-signatures and it's just incredibly easy to get documents back in the olden days the only way you could fundraise was by hiring a lawyer because there was no way to get the documents you actually needed to sell your preferred stock and the other thing that I think has changed a lot over the years is focus. I just remember, I don't ever remember anybody ever noticing how much time it took to do these financings in the past and how much focus it took away from founders building their company. Like I don't remember an investor or a founder ever saying like, gosh, this is taking a month and a half. I'd so much rather be building my company. I think today people notice and have figured out that it's not in anyone's best interest for people to be spending a lot of time fundraising. So it's much faster. So what hasn't changed? Preferred stock financings are no longer the way that companies do their first fundraising, but that process and those documents themselves really haven't changed over the years. And I'll talk about that a little bit more in a second, but that's pretty much the same. It's just the when that's changed. The other thing that hasn't really changed is I think there are two things that are super important to investors and to founders when they're fundraising. And those two things are valuation and dilution. So valuation is just the value of your enterprise. And dilution is stock, like how much of your company have you sold? So if you are selling investors a percentage of your company, you previously owned 100% of it. After you sell some, you're not going to own 100% of it. That's dilution. And then the last thing I just really wanted to add in here because I think it's really important to get this point across to people who are starting startups. Communication with investors has always been important because this is fundamentally about a relationship, right? Investors are giving you money and you are being expected to take their money and turn it into a billion dollar business. Whether or not you are succeeding or failing at that endeavor is so critical to communicate with your investors about that. So I think that that's something that has not changed over the years. It's still super important to communicate with your investors about that. So I think that that's something that has not changed over the years. It's still super important to communicate. So as I mentioned before, the old way of raising early money was to do a Series A preferred stock financing. A is the first letter of the alphabet. So the first time that a startup would fundraise, it would be called a Series A preferred stock financing. Okay, how did it work? So you take the valuation of your company, which is the overall value of your enterprise, you would divide it by the number of outstanding shares of capital stock. That's mostly for a Series A financing, just be the stock that the founders owned. And that gets you a price per share. You take that price per share and you would sell your preferred stock to your investors so now well back then angel investors I'm sure you guys have heard about angel investors they used to aggregate into consortiums and so they would tend to all band together and write one big check so for your your Series A financing, you would have maybe a couple of angel groups and you would raise about 1.5 to 2 million dollars in your Series A preferred stock round. Angel groups now write individual checks. Doesn't really happen like in consortiums anymore. Anyway, then you would negotiate the terms of the preferred stock. So the lead investor and you, the company, would have you each get your own legal counsel. The lawyers would go back and forth. They would negotiate the terms of the preferred stock, which means voting rights, liquidation rights, pro rata rights. And then you'd end up with a set of documents that go in those closing volumes. And there was, you know, there's about five of them. This took months, and it was, could cost anywhere in legal fees from $25,000 to $100,000. Okay, so what's broken about that? Well, that's pretty elaborate, right? Takes a long time. It costs, I just told you it could cost, you know, 25 to 100K on legal fees to do this. So it's kind of a big deal. But I think that the thing that was most broken about it was how inflexible it was. Jared's probably going to touch on this. It used, the cost of starting a company has decreased a ton over the years. Not so much for software and e-commerce companies. I'm sorry, not so much for hard tech companies, but software and e-commerce companies, the price of actually starting these startups has way decreased. And as a result, companies actually don't need to raise $1.5 to $2 million just to get off the ground. And having to do these long, elaborate, expensive financings was not worth it. So it just wasn't at all flexible. So when a company would do a big Series A round for its first round, and then it was waiting to do its Series B financing, sometimes it would run out of money in between. And so oftentimes the company would then go to its lead finance, its lead investor, rather, in their Series A financing, and they would ask for a bridge loan. A bridge loan is a debt bridge between two financings. And these involve the note purchase agreement and a convertible promissory note. And sometimes there would be common stock warrants that would go with it. But basically, it was a stopgap measure in between financings. So again, keep in mind these financings I just told you were long and expensive. So you aren't just doing them all the time. And this is where bridge loan financings came in. At the heart of the bridge loan was this convertible promissory note. And a convertible promissory note was a loan. It had an interest rate. It had a maturity date. It was a real note, but it also had a mechanic that would cause it to automatically convert into shares of stock when you did that next round. So if you got a bridge loan in between your series A and your series B, your convertible promissory notes would convert into shares of series B when that financing happened. But along the way, and I honestly don't remember how this all came about, but people started to realize that just the convertible promissory note, not necessarily the note purchase agreement or the CommSoc warrants, but the convertible promissory note itself could actually be used as a standalone document, and you could use it to fund companies, and you could use it to fund not as a bridge, but actually just the very first time that a company needed money. So this became a very appealing way to do your first fundraising event, because instead of having all those documents I described in the series A financing, instead you just had a convertible promissory note, which was obviously going to be a lot faster. It's only one document. People still hired lawyers for these convertible notes, but only negotiating one document and you're only negotiating maybe maturity date and interest rate, lots cheaper and lots more flexible because now instead of having to do this elaborate financing process and probably wanting to raise a couple million dollars to justify all that effort, you could just raise 50k from an angel. You could raise 100k from an angel or even less. But it's still a promissory note and a promissory note is still a loan. But it's still a promissory note and a promissory note is still a loan. So it's debt. We then at YC decided that we could modernize even the convertible promissory note and what we did is we came up with something called the SAFE. The SAFE as an acronym stands for simple agreement for future equity and like the promissory note it is one simple document. It is a convertible security. So when I showed you all those terms, it's a convertible security. It converts into stock when the company raises a priced round. You don't need to hire lawyers to do a safe. It's available online. And the most important part of it is that it isn't debt, which is why it needed to exist. What was broken about convertible promissory notes? They were only one document. They were cheap. They were fast. Well, because we didn't think it made any sense to use debt to sell equity. Angel investors are not lenders and startups don't really want to be borrowers, right? The whole point of taking someone's 50K and turning it into a billion dollars is everybody, those investors want to be stockholders. And startups don't want to be thinking about accruing interest or, you know, when is their note going to be due? So we thought that it made a lot more sense to take all the debt piece, all the debt part out of convertible promissory notes, but retain all of the convenience of them so I could do an entire lecture on how to use the safe and what it's all about but I've actually already done that so there are other startup school video lectures that you guys can watch to hear a ton more about the safe the this is a this is the YC page. This is the resources tab. So SAFE financing documents are at the top. We have a user guide that is kind of long, but it has a ton of really good information in it, tons of math examples to use to show you how it converts. So please visit that. Then the SAFE is only five pages long. It has the word simple in it, right? It's actually really easy to read. So then the question is, when do priced rounds happen? They are still the primary way that startups raise money. They're no longer the way that most startups do their first fundraising. But built into the safe and other convertible securities, like promissory notes, is the whole concept that eventually the company is going to do a priced round and those convertible securities are going to convert into that priced round. So most often companies will do their first fundraising on a safe convertible promissory note and then they will do a priced round afterward and all of those safes and convertible promissory notes will convert into stock. Safes and convertible promissory notes cannot convert unless there is a price run done eventually. So price rounds are still modern. They're just not the modern way to raise your money the first time. And also I should mention priced rounds, even though I was kind of laughing at them because they involve a lot of documents and we used to put them in these leather bound closing volumes for the lawyers to put on their bookshelves. They have actually seen some improvements as well. They are much more standard than they used to be. And they are also all five of the price round documents, you can get them online these days. Everyone tends to still hire a lawyer for them. OK, so did we perfect modern early stage financing by introducing the safe and by everybody using convertible securities to raise money the first time. And I would say we've come a long way, but I don't think it's quite perfected. And the reason is because I mentioned dilution a few minutes ago. So convertible securities, because people who hold, investors that hold convertible securities are not stockholders, you actually don't, it's very hard to tell how much ownership of your company you have sold when you sell a convertible security. They're not on your cap table as stockholders, right? You're still 100% owner if all you've ever done is sell convertible securities. But the day of reckoning is coming when you do your price round and all those convertible securities convert into shares of stock. You have to keep track. And there are a ton of resources and tools on how you can keep track, but you've got to do the work. There's no excuse for being surprised by realizing you sell 30% of your company to all of your angel investors. So don't let that happen to you. The other thing that is to be aware of with early stage fundraising using convertible securities is because it's so flexible and easy to raise custom amounts of money, you can raise $100K and decide that you can bootstrap on that for a while. And then maybe in a couple months, you raise 50K because you just need a little bit more. It's very flexible, but you can end up with a ton of investors. And we call that a party round, right? Used to be that in the old days, you'd maybe have six to 10 investors. And now you can have 25, 35 different angel investors who've given you money. That's great. You got the money. It's not a bad thing, but it can be administratively really challenging because they become stockholders when you do a price round and then you need their consent because, you know, corporations have stockholder consents. Kind of hard to chase down all those signatures. Again, not a bad thing, just something you got to be aware of. And finally, to something you've got to be aware of. And finally, one of the side effects of these convertible rounds is that investors write smaller checks, they tend to, and they don't care as much about the investor. They're not stockholders yet, so they're not quite as invested. This is a double-edged sword. Sometimes investors can drive you insane, but sometimes they can be really helpful, right? They will make introductions for you. They'll help you with strategic advice. So having investors who've just written a check and gotten a convertible security as opposed to writing a really big check and being a stockholder, it can mean the difference between how much attention they pay to you. Again, can be good, can be bad, but it's just a side effect. This is my summary slide. Okay, so modern early stage rounds of financing are usually done now using convertible securities like the SAFE. Selling preferred stock in priced rounds is still modern. It still happens. It has to happen. It just tends to happen later. It tends to be your second fundraising, not your first. The whole point, as I said before, is focus. If you don't have to spend a lot of time negotiating documents, if you can get the money in the bank really fast, you can go back to building your company, which is what you want, it's what your investors want. Specifically for this crowd, this is not San Francisco, this is Boston. What safes and convertible securities are completely common on the West Coast, I suspect that you guys will find angel investors and other people in your ecosystem out here that are less familiar with doing financings this way. So maybe a little bit of education involved. You may have investors who say, no, I've never heard of this safe. I want to do a convertible promissory note. Or you may have investors who are just like, what are you talking about? I don't do convertible securities. I'm buying preferred stock. That's what we're doing if you want my money. Kind of hard to say outside of the Silicon Valley. But for the most part, I would recommend that you approach fundraising with this idea of doing convertible securities just because it can be done so fast and so flexibly. And that is it. Do you want me to do questions? Okay. How many? A few. A few, okay. Yes? So if you're taking those checks early on, are there smaller investors? What impact as you start to get down the road in the future in fundraising rounds with respect to the way these seeds might look at that? So I do not think... I repeat the question. It's long. Okay. So if you take small checks from angel investors to do your early fundraising, do VCs look at that in a negative light when you go to them to do your priced round? I would say no, that is, they don't. I mean, you've taken small amounts of money, you've gotten X far, right? Like you've hit all these milestones, you're now going to VCs and saying, please do my priced round. I think the fact that you raised money from angels and took some small checks just shows how focused you were on getting through that process fast and iterating and getting to the place where you can do a price round. Yeah. Maybe building a little off the smaller check, but do you ever recommend something like equity crowdfunding? So using regulation crowdfunding for YC companies? So great question. You know, I thought that was super interesting since I've been practicing for 21 years. Like that's a huge change, right? And oh, I'm sorry, yeah. Okay, he was wondering about crowdfunding. So they changed, so the SEC changed the rules. You can now actually generally solicit and have your company be crowdfunded where actual strangers can buy your equity. It has a lot of rules and regulations around it. I feel like it's still in the testing phase. No YC company, to my knowledge, has done that yet. So I don't have any personal experience with it. Mike died. But I know some companies have done it, and it would be really interesting to go online and see if you can get like download from law firms that have helped with those crowdfunding initiatives to see kind of what the pros and cons were. Okay. Yeah. So according to the current safe terms, what happens if the company doesn't raise the following round? I heard that there is a company didn't raise the fund. So the conversion didn't happen. Okay, so that's a great question. So he is wondering, what happens if you never do a price round? You've sold a bunch of safes to investors. The safe only converts in the event that you raise a price round, your company gets sold, or you go public. And there is absolutely this concept that, well, what if my company just putters along and never needs to raise any more money? That is what I call a corner case. And my whole point in drafting the safe was to keep it simple. So I specifically did not try to capture every corner case that's out there. It is exceedingly rare for a company to be able to take a tiny amount of money that it raises from its safe holders and then go on and never need to, I'm not saying it couldn't happen, but it's pretty rare. This is going to be in a liquid, I mean the founders want liquidity too, right? So how are the founders ever gonna get liquidity if they don't sell or go public or you know raise more money. So, yes, of course. And some, you will surely meet some investors who raise that exact point. Well, you know, with promissory notes, at least it was debt. It could be repaid. They knew they were going to get their money back. That's not true with the safe. But again, it is like, it's a gamble. It's like, investor, do you want to buy a piece of my company? This is how you can do it. And if you don't believe that I'm ever going to raise money again or that I'm ever going to do anything with this company, then maybe it's not the right investment. So there's a million different ways you can respond to that. But basically, in all my years of practice, I only ever had one client that had only raised one round. Like, it just, companies need more money to grow. That's kind of the way I look at it. Way in the back. What's the threshold? How do you know which is a safe versus something else? Is there a monetary threshold, like $100,000 is too much for a safe or too little for a safe? OK, what's the threshold for how do you know which convertible security or should you do a price round? How do you know basically what to do? I'm glad you asked that question because I wanted to make this point and forgot. If a VC wants to give you $5 million as your very first fundraise, do it. I'm not sitting here saying you should never do a price round for your first fundraising event. Absolutely. round for your first fundraising event. Absolutely. So if someone wants you to do a priced round and it makes sense for your company, valuation wise, dilution wise, money raising wise, do it. Otherwise, it does not matter how much you're raising on convertible securities. It's about what you're comfortable with and it's about tracking dilution right how much are you actually selling we had a YC company that did a 50 million dollar safe and I almost choked because I was like I didn't build it for that you know it's a very simple document like it made me nervous thinking about it but it's fine it worked it's fine so it kind of depends on what your investors want to do with you. Again, like you need their money. So if they really, really want to do convertible promissory notes, and that's how you're going to get to the next milestone, and you need that money, take it, right? It's better than dying. But, you know, should you not do a safe just because someone wants to do a $500,000? Do a $500,000 safe. It's fine. Just, again, track the dilution. Yeah? What are the key terms of a safe that should be negotiated? Oh, I'm glad you asked that. Again, this is all in that other lecture, but because you asked. He wanted to know what the key terms of the safe are. Valuation. That's it. That's the only thing you have to negotiate in a SAFE. So, and that's probably, I mean, it's not an insignificant thing, right? You and your investor have to decide what valuation you're going to plop into the SAFE as your target valuation. And that's going to play into the math about how it converts. And that plays into dilution too. So you do have to figure that out. And we do have a version of the SAFE. If you go to the resources tab, you can see all these. We do have a version of the SAFE that doesn't actually even have a valuation in there. So in theory, you could even get away with not even negotiating a valuation with your investors, and you could try it that way. So that's an option. But really, that's the only thing you need to negotiate. And like I said, no lawyers, because what do you need them for? Yeah? Well, we have an investor, and he's strictly suggesting to add a special case in the safe. What will happen if we are not going to have pricing work in the future? Okay, so this person's investor is saying, let's add something to the safe that will address the issue of what if you never do a priced round and my safe never converts. So, sure, if that's the way you can get the money from this person and you really want this person's money and you need to do it, that's fine. You know, what the convertible promissory notes used to do is they would have a term sheet attached to them as an exhibit. is they would have a term sheet attached to them as an exhibit. And at the maturity date, the company hadn't already gotten a priced round put together with a new lead investor. That money would automatically convert on the terms that were negotiated on that term sheet. That's a route I could have taken with the SAFE. But honestly, that's just more stuff to negotiate. And I didn't want that to be part of the SAFE. But if your investor said, let's just have stuff to negotiate and I didn't want that to be part of the safe. So that's not, but if your investor said let's just put, let's just have this automatic conversion event, here are the terms, you can totally do that. Two more questions. Okay anyone else? Yes. So what would you recommend for instead of taking on investment using a safe for like services such as like a patent agent for not charging us up front for the patent later? Okay, so his question was, what if you wanted to give, basically you're saying, what if I want to give someone equity for services rendered because I don't want to give them cash? Okay, so the safe is a weird instrument to use for that, because the safe is fundamentally like, give me the money up front, I'll give you the stock later. If you're not getting any money, you're saying basically I'm getting my services and I'm just going to give you stock. I mean, I probably, that's probably not the way I would handle it. It's better to try to get money and then use the money to do that. Yeah, probably. I mean, yeah, I don't really think of the safe as being the thing you can use. To me, like what you're talking about is how do I get really cheap founder like stock to someone who's done a favor for me? And I wouldn't use the safe for that. I think there's other ways you can do that. And am I allowed to say we're doing an AMA on Friday? Like these kinds of questions, we're going to do an AMA. I'm actually going to have my other YC legal team with me. And we can answer questions like that and give you a few more ideas. But probably not the safe for that, just to answer your question. Okay, so anyone else? We all good? All right. Thank you.