 So Katarina, you are starting a podcast. What's it called? Indeed, I am. It is called Should This Exist? It's been in development for several months now, and we've been working on it. It will be 10 episodes starting on the 21st, which I think is when this will go live. And basically, it's about so much of what we do as entrepreneurs and as Y Combinator knows better than pretty much anybody, is basically making the business case for your product service startup. And I think that we found in recent years, especially that the conversation has turned to not can this exist? Or how can we enable this to exist, but should this exist, right? And I think that a lot of the things that we've seen kind of come out in the world in the past, you know, several decades, sometimes they may not have been not necessarily what the founders intended, right? It may not have been what, you know, society wanted or needed or even individuals wanted or needed. And if there were a slight course correction or if the founders had just been kind of asking themselves that question, should this exist? It's a very important question to ask, right? Just flat out. Should this exist? Should this feature exist? Right? Just flat out. Should this exist? Should this feature exist? Should we, you know, plan this company a little bit differently to address underrepresented groups? You know, this has potential for kind of increasing bias or inequality or like a thousand things that we can look at that are kind of these outcomes of our paths. And if you, you know, as we all know, when you're in, when you're doing a startup, you've already been in existence for five years, it's much more difficult to change your course than it is at the very outset. So those are the questions that we are hoping to introduce into the conversation, should this exist? So is there a process that you go through when you're trying to take apart an idea and figure out whether or not it should exist? Well, we, most of it comes out in conversation. And I think that a lot of it comes out in the conversational process that you engage in not only with your team, right. As, as a, as a founder and you know, as a, as a creator inventor actually a lot of the people that we have on the show are inventors and scientists and, um, um, people who are, you know, you know, kind of just taking maybe some research or some new technology, um, and bringing it out into the world and productizing it. And a lot of the time, I mean, there's, there's a lot of, um, questions out there, you know, there's a ton of, for example, groups that are kind of asking ourselves, what are AI ethics? What do we do with, how do we manage the potential very great downsides of, say, CRISPR? I mean, there's a lot going on right now. I mean, it's like a very, we're kind of going into realms in which we just don't have a good ethical framework to discuss them even. And so just making the kind of question the part of the conversation, very important. I think about this a lot because I read thousands of YC applications and some of them are for really, you know, really incredible technology that I'm like, wow, this could have a huge impact. So who should be part of that conversation when you're trying to decide whether something should exist? Is it founders, investors, or like how do you see that combo coming together? I mean, I honestly think that it's a matrix, right? It's like there's a lot of people that should be involved in that conversation. And I do think that one of the benefits of this show, and one of the things that we're hoping to do with this show, is to bring people in that are not necessarily normally part of the conversation, right? You want to bring in sociologists, you want to bring in historians, you want to bring in psychologists, people who actually study a lot of the different processes, and not all of us, computer scientists, user experience designers. I mean, you know, like, I mean, I think everybody starts off with the best of intentions. Nobody thinks that they're going to do something destructive when they start off. And as, you know, you kind of read in the poetry of like Baudelaire, the descent to hell is by small steps yeah right you just don't you just kind of see that happening over and over again and so you want to prevent the you know that kind of the theranos outcome you want to put it like all of these these things that you know you kind of you kind of get there yeah have you ever read the the blog wait but why yes i have tim urban yes so Tim talks about this idea in the context of what he calls the human colossus. And basically he says, like, we have this, like, divine destiny and that humans will just build. But it seems like you probably disagree. Like, the market doesn't necessarily push a product to a certain place. Well, I mean, I think that the, you know, it's one of the great things about humankind, right? We're kind of, you know, homo faber, right? The maker, right? It's like, you know, we are the makers. And we honestly just can't help ourselves. Exactly. And I honestly think it's one of the best things about us is that we're just endlessly curious. We like to develop new tools. We're kind of full of possibility and vision. And we see something that, you know, can be changed, and we want to change it. Right? I think it's one of the best parts of our nature. But when we do that, without a sense of some of the possible outcomes, or even being aware of them, and nobody knows, I mean, that's why they're called unintended consequences because they're not intended and yet you know but sometimes if you sit down and you really look at it you can see them you can see like if you had if you had just kind of like taken the time made this part of your conversation that you could put things on a completely different trajectory if you stop to think. And, you know, it's actually amazing how hard that is to do. I mean, without exception, the entrepreneurs that we've interviewed so far for the show have been, they've all said, we are so grateful for the opportunity to ask these questions and to have these conversations because in our daily work, we never have. We aren't asked these questions by our investors. We aren't asked these questions. And it puts them on much firmer ground themselves and sometimes even exposes or kind of shows them possibilities, you know, for their products that they hadn't previously seen. And that's super exciting when that happens. Well, so maybe we should be more concrete. So what's the first episode about? The first episode is about, it's coming out today, if today is February 21st. And it's about a neuro-priming headset that makes you learn faster. So it's like the Matrix. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's actually, it was invented by Daniel Chow, who is a neuroscientist, and he had actually done devices that were implanted in your brain that required literally opening up your head. I mean, he's like, I mean, he's, he's a real deal. Yeah. Right. And he realized that this was an extremely frightening procedure for obvious reasons. His, it was, it was his, his prior product had been called Neuropace and it was addressing epileptics, epileptic, kind of the medical treatment of epileptics using the electricity in your brain, right? Which makes sense. But it has been very difficult to get people over that hump of putting, literally like cutting your skull open and implanting a device in your brain. And so he decided to go with a new product that, you know, you can still affect the brain, right? But you don't have to be as invasive. So super interesting, a lot of ethical implications. It's specifically designed around sports. And if it works, so much learning could happen. It's almost science fiction. Yeah. Right? It's like almost science fiction. There's this movie from the 70s called Fantastic Planet. It's a French movie. And literally, the people in it, in the science fiction movie, put on a headset and boom, learn everything. Yeah, I know Judo. Right? And so it's kind of sci-fi in that way right i was always a big science fiction fan and so part of the reason that i love frankly these conversations is because they're all about that kind of possibility what if what if whatever science fiction also has a very strong utopian and dystopian kind of interest. It focuses on those two potential outcomes frequently. That's one of the things that I've learned recently that has been so interesting is that big companies are starting to hire science fiction writers. Oh, really? To map out these possibilities. Exactly. Because that is what they have been doing. I mean, that's kind of what their job is as science fiction writers. They're just kind of future scenario planners. Right, exactly. Yeah, no, it's amazing. Yeah, so, okay, so this is kind of reframing the show to me. I had previously thought it was more about criticizing things that currently exist. So is that happening or is it more about future ideas? No, no, it's more about kind of taking something that's leading edge. Right. That's actually leading edge and is something that is coming soon and is even in market. Right. And sometimes they're in market, sometimes they're still in the kind of early development stage. But having those conversations at the very early side of those. Because there's a lot of criticism online of things that already exist. And I think that if you read your op-ed of your daily paper, you will find a lot of that. But what we're trying to do is really start at where we are with new products. And in some ways, it's kind of start at where we are with new products. And in some ways, it's kind of the most fun. It's also way more optimistic. And it's more optimistic. Yeah, the dystopian stuff. I mean, you could just sit around and criticize the existing technology all day long. I mean, and it's actually very gratifying to do that in some ways. In like a mean, putting down celebrities kind of way. Yeah, yeah. But I think that the goal of this show is actually much more about possibility, right, than shutting stuff down. Okay. So this is a little bit of a side note, but I did have a question about current existing technologies. So if you say were an employee at a company where you're like, I don't know if this should exist. How do you think about that idea now? Because it's no longer like if you're working at a hardware store 50 years ago and you're like, I don't know. I just sell like screws and hammers and nails and whatever. You're like, you know, kind of like doing no harm. Yeah, it's neutral they're not harming anybody right necessarily i mean yeah obviously you can harm somebody with a hammer yeah yeah okay yeah maybe you're like oh i sold screws to a serial killer sure um but but but now you're like okay i think maybe five years ago people might say like i don't know you know i'm just like an employee at this company and i'm just whatever this is a fine salary right not so easy to say right yeah i mean i i think that um one of the great things about millennials and what are we calling the people that come after them gen z gen z and then there's one that like there's like like, you know, after. So like kids today, you know, whatever you call them these days are super engaged and want to know that the things that they're working on have merit, are putting things on a good trajectory, have positive impact and not negative impact. And you see this happening over and over again. You saw recently the Google walkout. You see organizations rising up to help people inside of organizations communicate with each other and figure out how to communicate this to senior management, etc. So I think it's a huge movement. And I think that people have started to realize, as employees of large companies, that they also have the power to say no, no, like, you know, it should not exist this way. Maybe it should exist this way. And actually be part of that influence and conversation and, you know, kind of actually set the trajectory of their work. Because it's their work, right? It's really the work that you do every day. And you have to feel good about that. I think that we all recognize that a lot of the time those of us who are so lucky to earn paychecks working in technology, which is a privilege, right? And most people do not have this privilege. And so we should consider ourselves extremely lucky. Are able to, with our work, and you can kind of see, change the world, right? And kind of this has always been the promise of Silicon Valley. We're here. We're going to change the world, right? There's tons of that. Are you changing the world for the better i mean yes you're changing the world right everybody's changing the world with their work every day a little like bit by bit yeah right and are you changing that world for the better or not and you know you want to be always making sure that you bring your moral compass to work with you yeah and absolutely and you have a choice because I mean, I know many people at companies who feel like they got lucky and they just ended up there and they're like, Oh, I don't know. I might be part of this machine, but I don't know if I can be part of another machine anymore. Like this might've been one hit. Right. And so they get, they get locked in. But I think as people start to think about stuff, they do end up moving on but i was curious about you as a founder did you ever look back and maybe even on projects where you're like i don't know i don't know if i should have made that if that was a decision that should have been made well sometimes you can't see the consequences of it so for example if you go back to my flickr uh photo stream yeah to around 2004 you'll see the design i posted it up there i think in 2008 or something like that, of the first activity feed. I never called it a feed. I called it recent activity. Because a feed always reminded me of animals at a trough. Which might be more accurate. Which may be more accurate, right? Subsequently, right? And this was a significant thing, right? It was not invented by me. It was just really invented. It was kind of reverse cron that we had seen in blogs. And the difference was it included activity from other people in your social network, right? It was the first time that this actually kind of appeared. And so you would see people liking your photo. You would see when your friends had posted a photo and all of that kind of thing. And, you know, you could just basically see activity as it was happening on the system. And it's interesting because this was then adopted by Facebook subsequently. But the changes that were made there were very significant. And we could see it all the way along the way. We could see that, oh, suddenly they're reordering things based on people's attention, not on chronology. Right? This is super significant. We saw that and we're like, whoa, that is not good, right? Because suddenly, if you have somebody, you know, it's kind of the same thing on, you know, kind of television. What gets your intention is not necessarily the thing that you should be paying attention to. It's a security hack of your biology as how it's kind of how i think about it because you you're just kind of as a human animal you know you're like you know you see like naked people you are not gonna not look at that yeah you see a car accident you're not gonna not look at that i mean it goes back to the early days of newspapers if it bleeds it leads if it leads it leads right and so once you start organizing things not based on simply i am interested in following this person okay i'm interested in what they have to say exciting or boring right or i trust this news source etc and then kind of making it so that not only um is it the most attention getting things are promoted, but you can buy your way there. Right? So it's like, I think that, you know, a recent activity, you know, reverse cron list is actually I don't think there's that much wrong with it until you start adapting it in these somewhat nefarious ways. So you see kind of some of the inventions that you. But then you go back. I mean, you could look at, I forget what year it was, but then there was like the rise of things like Upworthy. So they gamed it in a different way. Sure. So that was like the early days. Like, oh, we can sensationalize positive things and get in the feed before you had to buy your because as soon as soon as you switch to paid promotion of your facebook page right it changed the game sure right like you didn't get any activity in the feed unless you bought your way to the feed i know and it's it was it was kind of a tragic thing to see a network that was yours yeah right like these are your people like this is your cousin and your sister and your co-worker and your friend and you don't even see it and then suddenly like yeah and so i mean you know yes you can sensationalize yeah worthy things as well but i think that the problem is in the verb sensationalize right attentionify you know right like yeah it's a it's an issue yeah it's an issue but now both of you guys are doing this as investors right so kat you're you sit in interviews at yc how do you think about oh i don't know maybe this shouldn't exist or maybe maybe because do you put your money behind it? Because like, honestly, it's super interesting. I was, I was talking to a guy recently and he was, he was introduced to Juul really early, which is the, which is the cigarettes. Right. And he would, the way he was pitched this was it's a great product. It will reduce smoking. Right? Like fewer people will smoke as a result of using Joel. And he was kind of like, okay, well, that's an interesting claim. But then why would you start a smoking company to like have there be less smoking, if you know what I'm saying? And then he kind of looked into it and he was like, in no way are they actually explaining the addictive properties of nicotine. It's now what? Like there's, you know, 5 million new smokers because of this single product, a single product, right? And they recently got investment from Philip Morris. the very early stages of Juul, because he happened to meet them really early, have invested $250,000 in this company, which would now be worth $25 million, right? That's $250,000. He said, and I thought this was super interesting, I never had put a price on my ethics and integrity before, but I now know. It's $25 million. Exactly It's 25 million at least, right? Because that's just where it is now. And so, and so I think sometimes like, yes, you can totally get rich by burning down the rainforest and kind of creating sexist media and, you know, all kinds of things that you can invest in. Right? Right. Do you invest in them is the question, right? Yeah. And I think that at Yes VC, I'm an investor and my firm is called Yes VC. I think we have generally, you know, certain categories that we won't invest in, you know. Which is true for a lot of funds, right? The LPs have rules. It's true for a lot of funds, right? The LPs have rules. You can't invest in guns. Right. But like, we don't invest in gaming, right? We don't invest in a lot of games. And the reason that we don't is because it's like, a lot of the time, it's like, you know, it's like, it has all the same mechanisms as addictive gambling and things like that. And like, a lot of times it's just like Las Vegas for children. And you realize that the same mechanisms that are, you know, the same security exploits, frankly, that social media has taken advantage of are, which, that's a whole other conversation that we can have about my opinions of social media. You know, we just don't want to be in, in, in that kind of atmosphere. If it has those kinds of properties, right. Those compulsive addictive properties. It's just a category that I'm not against games, you know, I'm like a, you know, you know, give me some settlers of Kintan. But I'm, but I'm not, I'm not in the, in the business of creating these, you know, addictive-like behaviors. So, and the gaming category is full of that. Right. And, I mean, that's why I like the concept of this show that you're doing a lot. Because I think more of those conversations about should we fund this? Should we be part of this? You know, oftentimes, you know, since we're so early, you know, we're the first, you know, check for the first money in. And so that is pretty powerful. So it's so powerful. Yeah. And so because you're basically putting the, you know, Y Combinator seal of approval on every company that you invest in. We too, we're like putting the Yes VC seal of approval on every company that we endorse. I mean, it's an endorsement. I mean, of course. Yeah, of course. I mean, tricky things have happened at YC. Absolutely. Where a company pivots and you're like, oh boy, that was not the intended consequence of the 120 grand at the time. Exactly. Right. And you can kind of disavow them, try to go in and coach them and whatnot. But I think that part of the Y Combinator conversation should be in the, should this exist direction. I think it's important. And, and I think it's also important that another thing too, is that we have, um, we wrote this thing called the founder, the co-founder charter, which is a conversation that co-founders have. And I'm sure that Y Combinator has some version of, of this as well. Um, where you kind of set out your expectations, your hopes and dreams for the company, um, and where you would want to go. But I think it's really important also to put down in that document, you know, uh, what you will and won't do. Like, where are the limits? If you're in AI, you know, or you're in CRISPR, or you're in one of these kind of emerging categories, it's like an ethical minefield, you know, really know where you will and won't go. Do you make all of the founders that you invest in fill out this charter? No, no, we don't. I mean, it's kind of offered and we kind of have the conversation. We encourage that conversation. It's not required. But I think that our founders tend to be of a certain kind. And if you look at all of my prior companies, my prior investments, they do have a certain flavor. There's a certain ethos that they have in common. So Flickr was an online community there were kind of it was a very human community very creative um very communicative and um you know other companies uh that i've been part of include etsy where i was like the fourth or fifth person there um on the founding team and then became the chairman up through it's I mean, you know, and then, you know, other companies that I have funded, like Kickstarter, they have a very, I think, human ethos. Absolutely. And the kind of technology that I've always hoped to build, and part of the reason I'm doing this podcast is that I've always seen a big part of my job as me catering a fake is actually to humanize technology because it can it can dehumanize us and it has a tendency to do that if we if it goes in certain directions and to constantly bring it back you know to the human to the relational to the interpersonal to the communitarian to the creativity all of those things about us and they're all are also all of these structures that you're working within. Because I think people could say like, well, you know, VC is inherently prone to being susceptible to all of these vices, right? Because you have the money, you're like, here, I'm going to be X amount of money for Y percent. And it assumes a certain amount of like, hopefully infinite growth, right? And people will just beg, borrow, and steal to get that number so they can keep increasing the valuation, so they can keep raising, so they can exit. But you exist saying, and I think YC's in a similar boat, that doesn't necessarily have to be true. But it's painted that way often. There's so many conversations that are going on right now about the VC model that I think are great. And everybody questioning the unicorn blitzscaling, you know, 99 must die for one to succeed model, which I think that for decades has been taken as the single path to a successful Valley venture funded company, which is why you end up with the, you know, the, the venture backed sociopaths and the, you know, these, like truly like, you know, kind of like it kind of, it actually kind of puts you in the position where you have to become a worse person, right? You have to change your goals and your desires and who it is that you become. And I worked on Wall Street for six months. So that's as long as I could actually hack it. Was that when you were the door assistant? You mentioned this on another podcast I listened to. You were like writing a novel or something? I was a receptionist. You were a receptionist, yeah. This is a long story yeah i was a painter okay like literally a painter making like nothing literally nothing i was i was i was i was living on like there's this place like great in new york that it was called gray's papaya where famously you could get a 99 cent hot dog yeah near my house right 99 cent hot dog and a soda. It was like, this is like the lowest nutrition period of my life. I'm not sure how I survived it. I was like thin as a rail. But I was a painter and I took all these temp jobs. And I had a temp job at a investment bank. And the managing director of this department came to me and he said, ooh, you know, kid. I was only like in my 20s, super young, early 20s. And you're really smart. You could be an analyst here. And I'm like, well, you know, I'm a painter and, you know, that's kind of not my desire. And he's like, yeah, but I'm going to pay you a six-figure salary. my desire. And he's like, yeah, but I'm going to pay you a six-figure salary. And I'm like, six-figure salary? I'm like, literally, I'm living on 99 cent hot dogs at this point. So I'm like, OK, I think I can take you up on that. So I went out and I bought myself, literally, I bought myself a suit, like a power suit and some shoes, because I'm working on Wall Street. I can't look like a receptionist anymore. I'm like the real deal. So I step in. And within six months, I found myself becoming a different person. This was the thing that I noted in myself. I was surrounded by – and it was all guys, right? It was like me and a bunch of guys, right? And I was as tough as any of them, right? I was as tough as any of them. They were so impressed by me. They started calling me Brass Balls. I mean, this is Wall Street, right? This is very Wolf of Wall Street kind of environment. Totally Wolf of Wall Street environment. And yet, I could be just as obnoxious as them. And that's what they liked about me. And I didn't like that that was what they liked about me. They didn't like my kinder, gentler, more thoughtful, poetic, painterly qualities. They liked the fact that I could just rise up or down, like lowered myself down to their level. Yeah. Right? I could kind of meet them where they were and just be like, I can give as good as I get here. And then I realized what was happening to me. So literally that was like six months of that experience where I was just becoming, you know, the Wolverine of Wall Street. And I didn't want to become that. And so I was, what happened was I was, I got off the subway at, on Fifth Avenue in New York, where I was living and was on my way to work. I remember I had just become so angry all the time and that I was walking down the street and I was refusing to move aside for other people, right? Because I was just like in this world of, I don't know, like I was some kind of like elite entitled person. Yeah, yeah. It was awful. Like it was truly, I was transforming into just the most terrific person and it was actually when i was standing there on the sidewalk unwilling to move aside for other people that i realized that i had to quit and i walked in and i quit that day because i was just like it's not worth it like you're this is the end of this is the end of you that you've become a monster it's very self-aware i think a lot of people do 20 years before they i was gonna say you realize that i mean you know and i was like i was i was like i was back to 99 hot dogs within like 20 you know what i'm saying i was good at saving so that's not entirely true but i you know yeah right like and so that was a that was a kind of a a big moment i think it's dangerous right you get part of a certain culture and then you want to be good at the game yeah and we've seen this in the valley right yes exactly this is the game i'm in and i'm gonna mold myself to make it work right right and that was the game and i'm good at the game i can always figure out the game exactly i can always figure out the game. Exactly. I can always figure out the game. Right. Right? Like, that's one of my, like, my special sauce is that I would get in a system. So, for example, school. Yeah, yeah. Right? We should talk about this. We should talk about this. We should. Because I was a horrible student. Right? I was a great student and I was a horrible student. I liked student. I like to learn, but I didn't like to be taught. And so I had this, you know, I would go to class. I would, you know, you know, for example, like eighth grade geology. I was like, oh, this is great. I've been collecting rocks my whole life. I'm so into this. So I like sat down and read the geology textbook and I was like, oh, I love this subject. It's so great. So I showed up for class, the second class. And I realized that the teacher was just going to read out of the textbook, which I just read. And so I'm like, this is horrible. I'm not going to even bother doing this. So I left. And they, you know, I kept on getting, you know, marked absent. I was a truant. My parents had to come in and talk to the principal and all these, they made me go back into class again. So in order to get around this, I would read, I would check out of the library, I'd get interlibrary loan. I would get all of the books of the bibliography of each of the chapters of my geology textbook, and I would read them. And then I would sit in the front row, and the teacher was like, hey, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah um plate tectonics this and i was like you know if you had read i would raise my hand if you had read the seminal paper and plate tectonics you would realize that blah blah and that was like the most of that went over incredibly poorly which is kind of a design yeah and then i was excused from class and she kind of took me aside and said if you just show up for the exam you know i will not report you absent anymore so i did all of these like weird workarounds. And then I kind of just would, and it wasn't like I was off like smoking dope, like behind the bushes. Like I was actually in the library reading. So it wasn't like I was a bad student, but I was truly like institutions and I have never gotten along well. And so I was, you know, I was always like that. And I discovered that if you did really well on standardized tests you were good right yeah so I was like I was one of those students where I had like you know straight C's and then occasionally I would get like A pluses in a class where I had a really stellar teacher and I just loved them and I would do everything like that I could and then I had all these C's and like I was always on the verge of getting kicked out and um and yet I was like a national merit scholar yeah right so I had this I had this like peculiar relationship to to to school and to education I was there were a lot of people there who had like so much better grades than I did I I was, I did not get good grades. But it worked out okay for you. So now, yeah, right. Do you feel that school is, is doing a disservice to many people or are you just a small percentage of the world where you're like, I don't know, I was never going to fit in here. And so I can succeed as an entrepreneur. I mean, I do think that that nature, right. That peculiar, but peculiarity is actually very common among entrepreneurs. I think so too. That tendency to look at existing frameworks in which you're being forced to fit and just say, I don't fit into this framework. This framework is not serving people. Yeah. Like this, this framework is not serving people. Um, how can we, well, you can also add it or change it or somehow adapt in a different way and forge your own path. And you have to kind of be, like I said, have a lot of initiative, right? Like you can not go to class because you don't want to do the work, or you cannot go to class because you read all of the books in the bibliography on plate tectonic you know i'm saying like you can you can you can there's different approaches right there's different reasons to not go to class yeah yeah and if you're not going to class for the right reasons in the end i think it will serve you yeah right it's hard to have that confidence when you're younger right just to step back and be like oh god dude this is all like all these rules are made up i know but like i think that you have to look into yourself really deeply and ask yourself you know do i really like is this something that's actually truly worthwhile and to not fight to win prizes not worth winning right so much of life is that yeah and switch it up so what i'm actually curious about both of you like who did you look up to when you were younger was there someone like oh man i could you know i could be like them oh that's a good question i don't do you have you do you have an answer i'll think about two of of people who because you know because when i i think about it personally and i'm like you know i don't school i always did fine Like it was no problem. It was not particularly difficult to get a B or an A minus or whatever. But I was like, I don't think I want to win this game. Right. Yeah. This is not where I fit in. And so I would just look around and see like, oh, you know, like Spike Jones is like, he's making videos. He's making skateboard videos, videos but he's also starting a company he's doing all this creative work that's so awesome right so there is a model right sure oh yeah so i'm wondering like if you guys right and it's interesting too because um they're uh like you say spike lee is kind of a great example of that i'm sorry spike jones it's okay spike lee also why not actually sorry um but like spike jones and you know it's it's so funny because um um when i was living in new york around that same time spick jones was living down in alleged gallery down on the lower east side on ludlow street and um i used to go hang out with those guys and they were publishing a magazine called dirt yeah do you remember I'm aware. Were you like aware of this? And so we thought that this was the coolest thing ever. Cause it was, and I remember one of the things that I learned from that was how to, how to deface. It's illegal. How did you face a Canadian five to turn the, you know, the old white dude on the five dollar canadian bill okay into leonard nimoy's like mr spock yeah right which was so like i remember that i was like actually from like an early issue and they had so many like things like that that were like quasi illegal and dirt i don't i don't ever saw an issue of this thing like how to drill a um hole in a quarter so that you could use it repeatedly at the laundromat i definitely know about these like things like it's like a thousand things like this and i'm like you know can you publish things yeah and so and for me it's like oh there are these like fringe examples of how it works right you know what's interesting though and here's the thing that's kind of interesting yeah is that what was on and this always happens right what was on the edge became the center totally right right years ago all the things we're doing with startups and having individual founders being able to build enormous companies, that just didn't happen. Right. And also, you know, kind of, you know, culturally, rebellion was actually rebellion against the system. And now you're kind of in, it's on the, you're on the inside. Oh, yeah. You know, you're kind of being asked to disrupt. Yeah. Right? And that's a complete change, I think, in culture. I mean, obviously it's been happening since, I don't know, since Levi's became like $600 jeans. Right? You know what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like it used to be just totally rebellious, actually rebellious to where Levi's. I mean, now. It's kind of hard to say, right? I think I've heard the comparison multiple times that like, you know, Facebook jobs are the same as the Goldman job 10 years ago. I think it's kind of true. It's kind of true. I mean, how much does an entry level Facebook employee make? Six figures, I assume. Yeah, six figures. Yeah. Right? Facebook and Play make? Six figures, I assume. Yeah, six figures. Yeah. Right? I mean, like, you get a painter. Yeah. You know. Yeah. Sitting behind a reception desk at an investment bank. Yeah. Yeah. In the late 90s. Yeah. It's so funny. It's not that different. So do you have answers? We move on. Do we have answers? Oh, about who we looked up to as kids. I don't think. I'll get back to you on that. I mean, I know there's so many. It's super interesting, too, because I think that there's kind of cultural, you know, Spike Jones being a great example, like there's kind of cultural icons that are not necessarily people you're going to, like, you didn't become a skateboarder filmmaker kind of media person, right? But you recognized in certain people a spirit that you felt was something that you related to and wanted to follow, you know, or emulate, or, you know, you kind of just took his inspiration. And so as you are homeschooling, is that something that you try and set up for your kids? You kind of have to find those yourself. You know what I'm saying? Like you can't just, I mean, did you? It wasn't like your parents were just kind of like, here are your available options. You would have been like, no, thank you. No, I mean, I do think that you have to provide a rich environment in which those possibilities are there, present. Yeah. What I'm really thankful for today is that I was thinking through all the people that I looked up to, and only one woman comes to mind from being a kid, right? I really liked last long who was this i'm filipino right and who was this filipino artist and and performer what's her name last long she was the voice of princess jasmine okay she was in you know we should know for the record i'm half filipino oh my god my mother's my mother my mother is uh fil. Ah, that's exciting. Oh, my gosh. This is huge. Huge news. No, it's true, actually. Really? And so now I think that there's, and I think what it was is just seeing a Filipino woman who was successful out in the world. Oh, yeah. And put on a pedestal and people really appreciated her work. I didn't know any other Filipino women that were featured anywhere. And so I think it's so great now that there's way more women in all industries that are highlighted and featured. Some of who are. And so that's something that means a lot to me is that seeing someone who looks like you or represents sort of the background that you came from owning it. I mean, I think this is really important, honestly, if you're an underrepresented group, right? To see your kind of Latinx hero, to see your, you know, you know, Filipina hero. I, you know, I think it's important. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I have another Filipina. Here we are. This is the most ever on one of our podcasts. It's exciting. Yeah, the most ever. This is the Filipinos. Filipinos. Where's Diane Eisner? We can go get Jollibee together. It'll be great. The Jollibee used to be a couple blocks away from here, but it's no longer. It's no longer. Yeah. I know. Do they have banana ketchup at the Jollibee? I don't think so pasta situation. Yeah. It's a thing. You have to grow up with it. It might be an acquired taste. So we have some questions from Twitter that I thought would be kind of fun to cover. Okay, good. Okay. So let's see. We have many questions. So I think this could be kind of interesting. So how did you get your first 100 users? But now you've started three separate companies. So there's Flickr, Hunch, Findery. Right. Did you apply the same strategies for all of them? They're very different. It gets easier as you go along. I started on, maybe I didn't kind of start from second base, but I started from first base at least. I was already on base. In that I had a blog that had a lot of followers and I had started this very early, early on. And so it was literally drawing from my existing community and the people that I already knew who, who then were invited to and participated in, you have to, you know, you start small, then we're invited to and participated in. You start small. You start where you are with what you've got. And I had the advantage of having been very gregarious online for several years before starting Flickr, which is where our initial user base came from, specifically. So you were just blogging? I was blogging. I started a blog in 1998. What platform did you use? It was on the first one was actually just written in HTML. So you just put up a page every time you had a new post it was literally in html and then sometime around that time uh there was blogging software appeared yeah uh which was kind of a revelation there are always things like um geo cities and um this is starting to sound like kind of grandpa on the creaking rocking chair talking about like when i was a kid but it was like geocities and diary land and all these kinds of things were like back in the olden days and then um blogger came out and then movable type which eventually became wordpress and um and so i started using both of those actually i just found my blogger archives online which was kind of amazing to find um and so i've had this blog i've had the blog which i maintained to this day um at katarina.net which you know i had started in circa 1998 roughly around then when i got my hand written reverse cron right yeah you know blogs literally and and and there wasn't any blogging software at the time and so not only that but the blogging community was actually very small and so we all knew each other i knew mina trot from movable type i knew ev williams from blogger i knew all of these people and um it was just a very very small and very rich community actually very close we all read each other's um stuff and so it was a it was a really great core community to start with not only that but they had the ability to talk about new things including your photo sharing product but it's interesting because i you know one thing that I should note is that the way that Flickr really took off was that it was at the time thought to be extremely expensive to serve photos. And it was. But we knew that the cost of storage was declining and the cost of serving photos was declining and more people had broadband at their house. You know, we're talking about like circa 2003. And it seemed counterintuitive to allow people to hotlink, quote unquote, your photos to your blog. Yeah. But we realized that actually it wasn't going to be that expensive because the costs were just declining month over month. And so the way that Flickr really got going was when we allowed people to embed their photos on their blog. Because Blogger and movable type, neither of them had the ability to serve photos. And one crucial thing happened is the number one question that was asked on the blogger FAQ was, where do I host my photos? And the guy who wrote the FAQ wrote Flickr. Flickr is the place that you can put your photos. And so then people started using it. Did you guys have some like watermark type thing going on? Yeah, yeah. We said like we're happy to host your photos so long as you link back to Flickr. Yeah. Right? It's what happened with Imgur and Reddit. Same thing. And I think that that was that was tremendous because suddenly we were on blogs all over the place and people like oh well you know obviously if you're gonna have a photo and eventually they did enable people to upload photos to blogger but it was a long time coming and in that intervening you know several months you know we just grew like crazy interesting yeah i Yeah, I heard the same thing about Twitch writing their own encoder. They realized there was this massive cost savings at a certain point in time, and that's what allowed them to become profitable to become this gigantic company. Right, right, right. Because you could kind of see the cost of storage and bandwidth declining like this. You could just see it happen. And you kind of knew what that trajectory was going to end up at. And yeah, you're losing money now, but you won't be losing money later. Interesting, yeah. So, yeah. Okay, so basically you created your own little personal brand back in the day. I would never call it a personal brand. I know, I'm kidding. Right? Let's not go there. Yes. But you know what I'm saying. Because people ask this stuff all the time. And you being, I guess, designer historically, like training. Yeah. Historically, I was. So that's kind of how I got into the internet. Because I was this painter who failed at Wall Street for various reasons. Yeah. And then moved to California because my sister was out here and the web was happening. And I thought to myself, Oh, well I can parlay my aesthetic, um, skills into a design job. And I already knew how to code. Like I was always, I was always very nerdy kid and I had my own computers and I knew how to kind of really do basic, very basic programming, but you know, I always had an interest in interest in it. So that's how I computers and I knew how to really do basic programming but I always had an interest in it. So that's how I got started. I kind of was self-taught. And then what about when you're an investor, what are the things you're looking for in founders? So these are kind of ways as a founder you might be able to attract more users. But how as a founder or as an investor now, do you attract investors? Is it just as simple as make something people want? Make something great? Yeah. I mean, yes and no. Because you can actually make something that people want desperately, and it won't work out. So I think a really instructive study was done by Bill Gross of Idea Lab, who I don't know how many, like 500 companies have gone through there. And at some point, they had a fairly large pool of companies that they had incubated there. It kind of was like Y Combinator before Y Combinator. And it was like 90s, not Y Combinator. And he looked at the companies that had succeeded and those that had failed. And they looked at a bunch of different aspects that you could measure the companies in. Was it in a large market? Did it have a very strong founding team? Were they execution oriented? Was their timing right? Were they first to market? All of these different things that investors had historically looked at as leading to the success or not of this company. He found that without a doubt, the single biggest factor of the success of the companies was not the individual contributors, their business plan, their market, but their timing. you know, market, but their timing. Yeah. And I know this because Flickr came out at a point when Friendster had already gotten people used to the idea of putting their pictures online and having an online profile, number one. Number two, more than half of US households had broadband, could download a photo, like literally. And three, more than half of the cell phones were shipping with a camera. Like it was unstoppable. It was a juggernaut. It grew so fast. And, you know, its timing was perfect. It was perfect timing. And I know this too because, you know, other companies that I have built, Hunch, I think Hunch was about five years too early. Right? And I think that Findry was about two years too late. And it's super interesting how these things work out. And so when we're investors at Yes VC, when we look at investments, we try to find what we're calling movements. We looked at those companies that I mentioned earlier, Etsy, Kickstarter, Cloudera was an investor, you know, was an investment. And, and what, what was happening around them? What was the time? Like, what was timed right? Etsy came to emblema, like, kind of, like, represent the DIY, handmade, anti-big box retail movement. It was a movement. Right? And it's funny because I took it all around the valley and I took it to, you know, it's, like, kind of, of whom you've like know well and I've heard of and like they're all kind of like wait so let me get this straight it's a bunch of women sitting around knitting sweaters and selling it to each other and I'm like exactly it's gonna be huge right yeah they could not see it and I think but you gotta understand there's this like groundswell. And literally the next decade was about handmade this and artisanal that. As an investor in Blue Bottle Coffee, it was the same thing. It was like artisanal food was just like the decade was about that. Cloudera was like open source. Kickstarter basically came to represent crowdfunding. So when you actually look at the cultural changes that are happening around your product, if you have the ability to spot a movement like that, a big cultural movement like that, everybody's traveling in the same direction. The reporters and the journalists want to report on that. People are suddenly becoming conscious of the fact that they can have artisanal pickles. Really? We don't need artisanal pickles. But suddenly everybody's like desiring them. You see what I'm saying? And so there's this sort of groundswell of movement. And like you're just like you're a surfer. And you see the big wave. And you're like I am on that wave. And, you know, being able to kind of see that, hone your kind of eye, you know, and your heart, you know, and like all of your kind of senses towards that, you know, is tremendous. So if you can, like, because everything around you wants you to succeed. Yeah. Yeah. Right? And so if you can find that, like as an investor, that's like, you know, that's an amazing thing. And as a founder as well, that's the thing. And as a founder as well, like honestly, um, you know, figure out the thing, not just make something that people want, because a lot of time you can make something that people want, but you know, not enough people want it or they're not aware that they want it or like the culture's like kind of gone beyond it or especially if you're taking vc yeah especially if you're taking venture yeah so so okay so wrapping up um people can find should this exist on itunes yes we'll link it up yes excellent cool i'm sure it's gonna be be great. But if I'm a founder, what questions should I ask? Maybe, should this exist? Should I make this thing? Right, right, right. What would you suggest as an exercise? There's a really good kind of framework for asking these questions. And I honestly think it's not just a single question. And it's not at a single time, right? I think it's something that you just have to build into your process as founders, and as employees, actually, because, you know, there's more people joining startups than founding startups. So I think it's the responsibility of a lot of people on the team, like you mentioned earlier, to be just just asking that question, should this exist? And it can be the same question. I mean, at different points in the game, right? If I make this decision about the design of the recent activity, so-called feed, should this exist? Like, is this a feature that people want or need? Is this going to end up like let's let's do a thought experiment let's just like sit down and kind of imagine if this thing becomes the thing that millions of people use just like think it through yeah right and then put on your your kind of doomsday scenario hat right like your science fiction, science fiction, dystopian novelist hat. Yeah. And say to yourself, is this is that like, so like, let's say I'm just, you know, the most pessimistic person on the planet, find the pessimists around you, we've all got them in our lives. Right? And they especially stand out to entrepreneurs, because they really, they're, they're looking at things this way way and we're looking at things that way. So bring them in and say, look. And those people who are just kind of like, no, no, that's bad. It's going to be bad. Listen to them and kind of figure out, are they right? Right? Are they right? Could this end up there? And sometimes just seeing it for the first time isn't enough to be like, and, you know, kind of just like, sometimes just seeing it for the first time, isn't it like, oh, we're going to change that feature, or we're going to build an admin function that prevents that from happening, or we're going to take a totally different data set and feed it into our AI so that we don't have that outcome. So that's it. I think that's great. Well, thank you for coming in. Thank you. Thank you so much. This has been fun. Yeah.