 We are actually here for a private YC event, the Global Growth Conference, which has growth stage founders coming from US and China. And I know Cindy, you're talking at the event. So thank you so much for taking the time to meet with us before the event. You know, why don't we start off with, you know, can you tell us a little more about yourself and what really motivated you to start VIPKid? Absolutely. So I started teaching young kids English when I was 15 years old. So that's about almost 20 years ago. And what really motivated me to start VIPKid is the possibility of inspiring and empowering every child for the future. And just think about how we can connect the world of the best teachers, best content, and the most innovative learning experiences online is just amazing. So through all these years teaching young kids English, I figured the pain point for parents today is for their kids to be able to learn from the best teachers. And then the curriculum they learn nowadays are mostly out of date, and they really want something fun and content-based. So when we started VIPKids, it changed everything for the parents and the kids. Now that many children in China are able to learn with the best instructors from North America, learning content-based knowledge based on Common Core state standards, and children having so much fun. And it's a great thing for the teachers as well. And this just fulfills my dream of making learning so different for the kids today. And we're still working on it to build something even more amazing for the future. That's fantastic. I remember when I visited you in Beijing, you know, I had heard about VIP Kids, but I didn't realize that, you know, you pretty much built a global marketplace from day one. You know, I didn't realize that a lot of your English teachers were from the US, right? And you were teaching kids in China. Can you talk a little more about that? Because I thought that was interesting. And especially, you know, before you talk about that, also give some idea for the audience on what is the platform? What is the product? Do you provide the curriculum? And how does it work? Absolutely. So in the world of learning, we have this after school tutoring space where children go learn after their schools, right? So this is extremely important in Asian countries, particularly in China. The parents in China spend 15% of our household income in after-school tutoring services. That does not surprise me at all, given I come from India. That's right. It is really important for the children because then they can get tutored on things that they really like or things they need to work on right so um for the space we would usually have a brick and mortar uh tuning institutes uh operating across the country um so those are usually uh 20 40 people classrooms with children uh learning their after school for like three hours a week or two times of two hours a week kind of thing but then um what vip kid provides nowadays are very very different from the brick and mortar setting so um uh we provide this live uh one-on-one 25 minute uh classes with uh online tutors teaching live from the comfort of their homes so for children they're they're they're not learning in a classroom set up with 20 other kids. They're by themselves. So this is very private lesson, one-on-one. And then the teachers are the best we can find across the globe. Because if you think about it, we're today working with over 20,000 teachers in the US. And they're the best we can find. And everyone has to go through a very highly selective interview process. We only admit 5% of teacher applicants. So children really enjoy it. For the first time in their life, they can feel free to choose to work with teachers that they feel the best, help them learn, and we're able to match the best teachers to them in the system. So this is about the teachers a second highlight of a product is that um the content the curriculum content is developed by a vip kid curriculum team we've got over 200 professionals working on this um we iterate at a weekly basis so um children really like it because it's based on common core it's not uh uh just language learning it's not just about grammar vocabulary it has um like math uh language and arts science social studies all the content in it so it's really fun and then um when they learn these uh content it's not just about the language it's the content it's a culture it's a critical thinking leadership a lot of things behind it so children children are having a great, great time. And all these curriculum are designed for students out of the U.S., so don't speak English. And then they're designed for online learning specifically. So the way the things are sky-folded is so different from what would have learning in the classroom set up. So very unique content for the students. We have long-term, short-term assessment built all the way through. So students also do a lot of project-based learning after their session time, and then they just present to the teachers the next session. So it's a content. And lastly, learning experience is so different. They have access to a learning portal at all times. So they would usually take a 25 minute session two to three times a week, but then the rest of the time they would spend their time on their learning portal, reading books, doing practice sessions, working on a whole lot other things we provide for them. So learning is consistent and we have all the data. So we're able to do better learning analytics for the parents and also provide children with a more personalized learning content. Got it. Great. That's fascinating because I think you touched on like at least three elements that make it different. And I wanted to probe on one or two of them because there are a lot of ed tech online platforms. But I think the scale that you have achieved truly makes it unique. So you said you have 20,000 teachers, all from the US, is that right? Mostly, and some from Canada. Okay, some from Canada. All from North America. North America, got it. And how many students do you have? Up to date, we've got over 200,000 students learning with VIPKID. Okay, and so, are they all from China? They're mostly from China. And we have over 2% of our students coming from countries like Japan, Indonesia, Germany, Australia, and some of them in the US as well. Got it. Great. So one of the questions I had for you is, you know, how long is this course or program? Like when does a child join VIP Kids? And how do you keep them motivated? Because it was interesting you mentioned that the session length is 25 minutes and the rest they're doing, you know, they have to do on the learning platform. So what motivates them to stay on the platform? That's a great question. So our student, the youngest are three and a half. Okay. And the oldest goes up to 13 years old. Okay. and a half. And the oldest goes up to 13 years old. What motivates the kids is the learning interest that brought to them by lively, encouraging North American teachers, as well as the engaging content that is very personalized to their need and also the gamified learning experiences on our learning portal. So today, children make their own decisions of what they want to learn, what they do not want to learn. Parents cannot really help changing their mind. We try, we try. Good luck trying. But it really has to become that intrinsic motivation that i personally believe is very very important so if the child feels like he is empowered encouraged by tutor um encouraging him all the time saying great job brilliant wonderful you're really great the best student i've ever taught he felt so great about learning that the love of learning sticks there so it's really important that uh we um build that within our kids so they're able to set out to learn and explore themselves in the future and second thing i think really important for the kid is um we we help them build competency for the future so by that i mean very interesting uh class design instruction designs or content that skyfall very interestingly so for one class we had a question for the kid and asking them if you have all these rice on the floor how would you solve the problem problem solving right so you would have then have a chicken you have the vacuum clean thing and a lot of other brooms everything everything. So children always want to go for the chicken because they think it's fun. Chicken eat rice, right? So it's like a lot of competency to help them through with their logic, thinking and everything else. So children feel they're not just learning, they're having fun and also they're building different skills that they can in the future apply to other subject areas of their learnings. Great. So it's an intrinsic motive. That sounds fascinating. And I think, as you mentioned, the one-on-one interaction with the teacher and that motivation also keeps them going to try different projects on the platform. Absolutely. I thought you mentioned one very interesting thing, which was you said you're looking at North America for the teachers. So my question there was, you know, you started this company in China for customer, your students from China are the ones learning. How did you go about building this great network of teachers and especially for someone coming from China to the US and related to that, like today you mentioned you're at a 5% acceptance rate. So what is it that you really look for when you're selecting a teacher to the platform? Yeah, so we are looking into a few qualities that is really important to us for teachers that work with the IPKit. One of the most important being love of kids. So you really have to wanting to help children learn and grow. It's not an easy job, right? You work with children who mostly barely do not speak English and you don't speak Mandarin or Japanese or Russian and then you're there to help them learn. They're a half-year-old. This is fun, but at the same time, very, very challenging. So that intrinsic motivation of the teachers is really, really important. And secondly, qualifications and experiences. We're looking for people with a bachelor's degree. People have a teaching certificate. It can be a TESOL, TEFL, ESL-based certificate. It can be a K-12 teaching certificate. So you really have to have that experience of working with kids or students so that you know the best way to to teach i mean being able to speak a language and be able to teach is a very very different skills right in china we have you know 1.7 billion people everybody speaks mandarin but very few can teach so if you think about it it's really important that somebody who's been in the profession long enough that knows how to engage students learning interests and lastly we're looking for teachers who are able to learn really fast teaching online is kind of different it's not in a classroom you have this little video camera, you navigate and then, so it's really important that you learn fast. But we're also, although we only have a 5% acceptance rate today, we're also thinking about how we can better empower our teachers because we think many of the teachers are really great. It's just, if they cannot figure out how to teach online really fast, they wouldn't pass our interview today. But if we do more efforts and help them more, I think they have all the fundamentals that we need. And being a teacher in North America is not an easy job. It's not exactly the highest paid position. You spend many, many more hours out of the classroom. It's a ritual. It's significantly surprising, I think right you just devote all your time and love to the kids and i think they all deserve the best of 2d teaching online and teach students across the globe so we would love to spend more time building like better empowerment tools so it can help them more that's very interesting because uh when you know before i was going to talk to you today, I just looked online in YouTube, and the first video that came up was from a teacher who said, I failed my first VIP kid interview, but here are the tips to, you know, pass the interview, or how should we become a better teacher? And I thought that was very interesting. It's almost 20,000 teacher-generated content. It's very rare. If you search for any company in the world, you wouldn't find all these professionally made content from the supply side of the user for ourselves, right? Yeah. So let's go back to when you launched the company, right? Because you had to have a global marketplace from day one. You needed these teachers from North America and students from China. So talk a little bit about the first year when you launched. How did you source these teachers? Yeah, that's great. The first part of your question. Well, so the first year and a half was very, very challenging. Nobody bought the idea from both sides of the marketplace. Parents think it's just challenging for kids to learn online. They wouldn't imagine. And then investors thought this is such a dumb idea that you can never find enough students and teachers. But from the teacher side also, it took a lot of efforts to convince people. So by the end of the first year and a half, we ended up with only 20 teachers and 200 students. So bravo to all these people who believed in our mission. But I think it's just, if people don't see how it looks like, it's very hard for people to understand how it might work, right? So we did spend the most time in our first year and a half talking to everyone. Just sit down with them, explain, be very patient and have them understand how it will look like and then, if necessary, demonstrate. So, I remember, I think for the first 20 teachers, I think I talked to most of them. For the first 10, I definitely did recruiting myself. So, we need to, on Skype, by then, we didn't really have a system yet. Demonstrate to the teachers how it could work. Like, you could just, hi, to your students, right? And it's not hard. But if you think about it, for many people who do not speak Mandarin and who think it's really the hardest language to learn mostly, it's scary to teach young kids who don't speak English. So we just have to tell teachers it's really easy. So if you say, hello, my name is Cindy. What is your name? They'll get it. It's like 50% of the communication is non-verbal, right? So just be patient and explain to everyone, talk to the people, find out people who's willing to get on board at an early stage. It's a very risky experience. But by the end of the year and a half, we're able to figure out a few things. One is how do we find teachers and students, right? So the thing there we found is referrals. If you have a great quality product, people would love to talk to their friends about it. And if it's bringing them extra value for the student side, less expensive tuition for teachers that have more income. Second thing is we figured out how do we build a content online? It must be very differently from it is important more classrooms and also with teachers who do not speak children's first language. And lastly, what are the system functions that parents and students and teachers need the most? So we can start building something there. We have a three party kind of system there. It's not just like share rides, riders and drivers. We have one more, so parents. Yeah, and the parent is the customer that's paying for it. Yes, and children make decisions. So it's really important to keep them both happy. Got it. And so how did, so on the teacher side, you said after a year and a half, you had 20. And how did you do that on the student side? You had 200? Oh, yes. It's the same thing. So our first four students come from one of our most early investors, Sinovation Ventures. And out of the four students, three comes from the company. So we have the two children of their CFO and one child of the general counsel. And then one more comes from Jesse, my co-founder's friend. So friend and family. And then we started with the six, four kids. And they love it. But for the first few classes, we have to sit the child down in one of the conference rooms in a Sanitation Ventures offices. We used to be incubated there. So it's like similar to this YC office. And then teachers in the other classroom, like a conference room. And then parents feels like they have to watch both sides and how they go. It's really fun to see how they work together. And we didn't know, like, we need to have a very solid backdrop of the wall. And there was a really colorful painting that blurs the camera. So we did a lot of experiences built up from those. But then after the four students, we then had a lot of videos that we can show to other parents. We're like, oh, see, this is what your child looks like when they learn online. And particularly one thing was very impressive. When we saw our very first student, Lily, I think she lived in France when she was really little. And she was seven by then. She hated English. But then one day, the video seven by then. She hated English. But then one day, the video camera turned off, teacher went away. Lily stayed in the classroom for like extra 10 minutes and just went back to see what's taught in the classroom. And then she keeps saying, teacher, come back. Where are you? That is so great. That's a great sign. Very heartbreaking, but yes so she loved it. So you see how the connections are built across the screen. And it's something that even beyond my imagination. And today, of course, I hear stories all the time from our teachers saying, oh, these are my kids. You know, the country, you love them so much. But then it's really very different when you see all these connections are built. So And it's really very different when you see all these connections are so well-connected world between the teachers and students. And when exactly did you launch? Was it 2013? Yes, we launched in, we've officially launched the market March 2015. So it's two years and a half ago. But we started October 2013. So exactly four years ago. Okay. So one of the things I've noticed even in in the US marketplaces, right? Marketplaces are a long slog because it takes both sides to build liquidity. I mean, Airbnb has talked about this quite a lot as well. It took them quite some time to build that. So a year and a half, you had 20 teachers, 200 students. At what point did you really think this is going to work? Was it at that point? It was at that point. And also a few other little points along the way. I think what we're really looking for is efficacy through that year and a half because for students, a learning outcome, that means the world, right? And just have to be valuable to the kids otherwise why would you want to be building this company because it could be commercially you know successful but doesn't really last right so efficacy is something we look for and after a year and a half we find our students love the program high retention enjoy it they are taking initiatives asking their parents say can i have a class every day their mom's like, make a little bit expensive. Can we just do it a little bit less? And it's never happened before. It's always a mom saying, can you learn more? And the kids say no. And also on the other end of the equation, our teachers, we need to make sure that this works for them. This is something that they relish and they feel comfortable doing. They want to do this for long term. And, you know, in this, in the one of the oldest Chinese saying, we have like you have all the students across the globe, but they use like fruits to metaphor it. And that's the same thing. We're now bringing students across the globe to the teachers in the US. I mean, teachers in North America are really great, motivated people. I think they all love the kids like themselves, right? And also the extra income makes a lot of sense and it just helps the family so much in a way that I couldn't have imagined. I visited a few very small cities in Utah or quite a lot of other states. And then there aren't a lot of local job opportunities. I think even if teachers wanted to make extra income, where can they go? Except for driving Uber or some other retail opportunities. And now today, many of the retail jobs are gone so it's really hard for them so i'm really happy that this provides all these great value um for the teachers and then so by that point we figured this is working and everybody loves it right kids love it teacher love it parents love it you know why don't we then scale? I think then you have all these metrics that venture capital people would evaluate on. Translated would be like a retention and LTV, right? And then if everybody's referring everybody, it's a low acquisition cost, right? And so everybody's very happy with where we are, and then we're able to really grow this program. But I think all comes down to efficacy for both sides. Got it. And how big was your team in the first one and a half years? Oh, like 20-ish people. So we started with a few people. So we believe in the Lean Startup way. So we just have to build from a very small team and then just gradually grow your team. So we had a very few people for the first year and a half. And were they all based in China? Yeah, they are. Okay. By then. And today, you know, you obviously have scaled it very well from 20 to 20,000 teachers and 200 to more than 200,000 students. So how is your team today? How big is it? Where are they located? So our team today has over 3,000 people. So most of the team are located in Beijing. And we have office in Shanghai, but we are very proactively building up an office here in the Bay Area. And we believe that since our teachers are all here, it only makes the most sense if we want to empower them the best, have a dual headquarter here in San Francisco, close to all the teachers. So we're building up a team here in San Mateo. Oh, that's interesting. I mean, it makes natural sense now that you have 20,000 teachers. But how did you, I'm curious, how did you manage recruiting teachers being in Beijing the last two and a half to three years? I think community would be the key word, I think. And of course, referral virality would be the second key word right after community. Empowerment, something we believe in. So teachers, they're in the U.S. and very disfranchised, dislocated already. So across the Pacific Ocean is not that far away. But I've been a teacher for the past 20 years, so teachers feel that me and my team really understands what they need the most, and we really are there for them all the time. So from day one, they feel that they're so connected to the community that they want the most. And we really are there for them all the time. So from day one, they feel that they're so connected to the community that they want to contribute. So the way we do this is by referrals. And our teachers would, as you see on YouTube, post their own experiences. Five-minute video, very well educated. And then people ask questions and then they would answer them. And they would say, hey, if you want to apply, click on this link. And if they refer teachers successfully, we'll definitely give them motivations on their referrals and then teachers feel incentivized to do this. But I think at the very core, though, is teachers feel that they're heard and they're empowered in everything that we do on a daily basis. So we communicate to our teachers very frequently. We have a weekly newsletter that goes out to every teacher, sharing with everyone what's happening across board. So a letter from San Francisco or Beijing doesn't really make a difference. If people feel culturally, they're so connected. doesn't really make a difference if people feel culturally they're so connected and we do work with the professionals in beijing that are um uh north american um people so like from uh us or or canada so our teams are are like although located in beijing um from here right so uh and also teachers are very special teacher like like education, educator community. So with a team in this share economy world or marketplace world, but from education perspective, makes them feel that we're the most trustworthy, efficacious learning company that they've ever seen. And we really implement every little thing we do, making sure that we're doing the whole efficacy goal as we move forward, although we're scaling really fast and teachers know it. And they can see all the iterations in our curriculum, product that makes things different on a daily basis. Daily basis. It's really important what you do instead of what you say. And in a world of social media, everyone just talks to everyone. We have all these teacher communities. Some of them have over 8,000 members. One of our teacher communities is on Facebook run by a teacher called Shannon Mulberry. And she was invited to the Facebook summit thing in Chicago with 110 community leaders, and she's one of them. Very proud. And people like her are advocating VIP across the board. And we just launched our summit to office this year, so we have very experienced veterans in our ed tech community like Kelvin Klang, who travels across the U.S. and go to every state and meet with all the teachers. Every month, I think we have over 50 teacher-initiated meetups. So it's not us, it's them. But then we have people as teacher evangelists to go there and talk to them all the time. Yeah, that's the power of the community. I mean, it's so fascinating to hear you almost have three sides. You have the child, you have the parent, and you have the teachers, and they're quite distributed. And you've gotten both sides to sort of work with each other to build this. What is your vision for VIPKID? Like five years from now, what do you think it would be? Oh, five to 10 years, I think. We would love to have children across the globe to be able to learn with VIPKID. And we're seeing five to 10 million kids learn. And we want to work with many more teachers and make both students' and teachers' life and learning experience, teaching experience very, very different. And I think what's more important is a longer mission. Our mission is to inspire and empower every child for the future. So if you think about it, 63% of our high school kids, 63 of our rural kids in China does not get to go to high school and 2 billion of the world population still lives on a three US dollar per day cost, right? So the world of learning is so essential to our humankind that if, I mean, online learning today is really, has a possibility to be the game changer for the future. And then with, you know, online learning things can be way more efficient, efficacious, and also the cost is going to be much lower. And then if we can just bring this to every child in the world, this can be really great. And then also the world is going to be very different in the next 20, 30, 40 years, and schools are going to be very different. So what do child need for the future? Can we, you know, embed all these love of learning and competence of future for them in the things that we teach them? So I think our dream is really to be able to do that across board, not just to the families who can afford it today, but also to all the families that can not afford it today, but in the future, maybe if we can build something for them, it'd be really great. Just possibility of reimagining, rethinking what a K-12 education can look like at a global level in the next 10, 20 years is very, very exciting to the team. And then it's part of the reason that we're also building a growth in the ai team here in samatel it's all the learning science that we need to discover working with the daphne caller from uh she used to be a professor in stanford and co-founder called sarah and a stanford professor bruce mccandless on uh children's early uh childhood education, and also a few others. I mean, so for all these professors, I think it's really great for us to be working with them to figure things out so we can build this amazing future together. Yeah, that's such a wonderful mission. I mean, kudos to you for, you know, sort of starting it from age 15 and sort of realizing it and being able to, you know, almost deliver on that mission, right? And you've already started that with English. And I know you have plans to do the rivers. I know a lot of US kids would be interested in learning Mandarin. And I thought it was interesting you mentioned AI. I mean, I think it's almost becoming a common theme across most products. And especially in China, I've seen a lot more companies put AI at the forefront of it. Can you talk a little more about how you see AI in edtech and in particular in VIPKit? Is it about a personalized curriculum? Like what is sort of your vision there? Yeah, our vision with AI is to be able to personalize students' learning and also to empower our teachers in their work. So we have after compression every month over 100 terabytes of data. So it's a lot of data. And then we might be the only company that processes all these audio, video, content interaction of student teachers and all these learning data across board. So we then have a great opportunity to figure out what motivates students to learn. How does a teacher work the best? How do we match students and teachers? How do we personalize their learning path? So there are a lot of things we can discover from all these amazing data and be really great to find the best people in the industry. I mean, before, people wouldn't think about AdTech. They would think about all the other companies. But if you think about the AdTech today, there are quite a few companies that are in the unicorn family already. So people are thinking, oh, this might have a future. And also, many of their kids are users of these products so people from the growth teams of sherry khan marketplace companies who are top tier ai people and researchers also from university they're they're interested in see this possibility of how this can be really different so also talking about teachers' empowerment, if you think about teacher stops, it's really hard. How do you remember every of your students? How do you remember every little details of how they work? And how do you real-time respond to their interactions in the classroom to best help them? So it's a lot of hard work. I think with AI, everything can be made a lot easier, and teachers can just do what they're best at. And then if the work is more efficient, they can probably make more money, income in the given amount of time that they work with the kids. So it'd be very beneficial for both the kids and the teachers and parents, of course, they would always want to see like how their children are doing. And all these would just bring a whole lot benefit to everyone. Well thank you so much Cindy for taking the time. I'm sure you know a lot of our audience would have gotten a lot from how you know how much you've really perceived it and congratulations on all the progress. Well thank you so much Anu for having me. Thank you.