 Welcome. I am Adora Chung. I'm a partner at Y Combinator, and I am here interviewing Craig Cannon. How's it going? Good. How are you doing? I'm doing very well. Great. Thanks for being here. Thanks for being on your own podcast. No problem. I had a great time setting it all up. And so Craig is the head of marketing at Y Combinator and also the extraordinary host of this great Y Combinator podcast. And he actually asked me a few weeks ago on topics I was interested in and doing on a podcast, so I thought about things I wanted to learn more about. And one of those things is actually podcasting itself. It's hitting its stride, I think, and who better to ask than someone like yourself. So I want to spend most of the time talking about podcasting trends, what you think about it, how to do it correctly, things like that, and about the Y Combinator podcast itself. But maybe you could start off with telling us, you know, people, people, lots of people listen to you, you know, what, two to three times a week. And I don't think they know anything about you. So why don't you start off with who's Craig Cannon? Where are you from? You know, how did you, what's your background? How did you, what's your background? How did you, how'd you learn about YC and how did you even end up here? Yeah, that's a, that's a big question. Uh, I'll do the quick version. So, uh, yeah. Hi, my name's Craig. Uh, I'm from Boston or near Boston. I went to school at NYU and I was an English major. So I was like the guy, all you people, all you CS engineers made fun of. And I was about to graduate and I realized that I was like moderately unemployable. I didn't have very many skills, but I was running the comedy magazine at NYU. And so I was like, well, maybe I can get a job at this place called The Onion. And so I just sent out an application and like that was the one thing I got. So I started working there. And while I was there, I actually started reading HN and programming on the side. And after a few years there, I started this hackathon series called Comedy Hack Day, where developers and comedians made stuff together. It was like a hackathon. Oh, that's funny. Yeah, because I was going to hackathons and realizing that they were mostly presentation competitions, not really programming competitions. What's an example of something that got produced during one of these things? So one of the early ones was called Timesify, and it was a Chrome extension that would allow you to turn any website, usually a junk news website like BuzzFeed, into a site that looked like the New York Times but it would inject the article into it and then like you could click the ads and it would basically create a slideshow of all the images yep uh so that was great and there are there are a ton of them um yeah so I did that for like four years with a few of my friends and I had gotten into cycling when I was out here um and and I found this thing this like world record that I wanted to go for and I and I did it and it worked out and people started treating me differently and it was really weird and I and I like started feeling this like pending doom of my youth and vitality fading away what was the world record again it was uh most elevation climbed in 48 hours oh wow how much is that uh well it mine was like 97 000 feet got it yeah so so yeah so people were treating me differently and i was like oh shit i'm not gonna be young forever and so i quit and i went on like a five month bike tour and i was like out of the country and I went to Japan and Vietnam and New Zealand and I came back and I had no job and I had no idea what I was going to do and then Luke Eisman who used to work here called me up and asked me if I wanted to do a contract for the blog and so that started you know three years ago okay oh see okay so you start with the blog and then so what were the steps into how you eventually started this, the YC podcast and why even the podcast? Yeah. Um, so it should be said that Aaron did a YC podcast a few years ago, uh, called startup school radio. Um, and yeah, I wanted actually, I didn't care as much about making a podcast. I wanted to make a YouTube channel because YouTube, I think a lot of people know now has great SEO and podcasts have terrible SEO and so I was like all right what's the easiest way for us to create a ton of content for a YouTube channel and then title it all in a way that you know like our founders get attention like stuff we want to talk about gets attention and more importantly it doesn't fade away and so i was like well podcast is a good way to do that and yeah we just started from there oh so podcast is the way to get the content and then youtube is the way to spread it well because we do both um but i i think it was like 2014 or 2015 when i started following joe rogan and i just saw this like massive growth happening and people were like clipping his videos and creating like fan channels and now I think his YouTube channel gets as many views as his podcast gets downloads which isn't true for ours right um but yeah if you look for Adora Chung online like I'm sure if you google yourself like you show up you know occasionally yeah um so to calibrate a little to calibrate us a little bit. So the Y Combinator account, how do you like, how many views do we get? Or, you know, how do you how do you even calculate this? Or what metric actually matters? And so let me let's talk about that. Yeah. So the thing that ultimately really matters is like, we kind of have two goals. So one is to, you know, help educate founders and people who are in the startup game. And two is to bring other founders in. So the way we're trying to calculate this, and it's still pretty loose, is by driving applications. And that's the main thing. But in terms of sheer metrics, we started out possibly a little bit bigger than other shows by having maybe 2 two or three thousand people automatically subscribe and now we're maybe like 40 ish thousand give or take you know five or ten thousand every episode plus youtube so youtube can go from like a thousand to a hundred thousand depending on how the person is yep yeah got it so um all right so i wanted to get into how you create a podcast essentially essentially, and your tips there. So let's pretend I want to do a podcast. And so I have a topic that I want to do. How do I decide if that's actually a good idea or not to even work on it? Do you have an idea in mind? Well, I can come up with a theoretical idea so so one i've always just joked around doing which i think actually might be a good idea is to do a podcast where i ask little kids questions like deeply philosophical questions um just because i think they will they actually have great insight into the world in which we are unaware of you've seen that show right you can say the darndest things yes people have told me about that i have not seen it but i've seen clips of it i've seen like little clips of it yes yes so right off the bat there's clearly an audience already for this like that show worked um the first question is honestly do you want to do the thing and i think another question that a lot of people don't ask is am i willing to even create like a time box around this and say, I'm OK if I make 10 episodes? Because one of the hardest parts about podcasting in particular, if it's not your job, like with YC, I'm just like, OK, we'll just keep banging out every week. If it's not your job, it can become a real grind because those metrics don't go up that quickly. You know, getting from like 30,000 to 40,000 and 40,000 50,000 can take years for certain people um so assuming that you really want to do the thing think what could i maybe make like eight of these like alexis madrigal did that with a container podcast i don't know if you listen to that one but it's super cool and it's like the short version i thought that was a great idea so then I would would this be scripted in any way probably not but I would have to probably edit a lot yeah okay so what I would I would suggest doing then is just getting like a basic basic setup and then just going and recording a bunch like don't even release got it cool and um. And so the YC podcast has every episode has its own topics. So how do you come up with those topics? Yeah. So in many ways, it's about like stuff I'm interested in. I don't know. I hit this point where, you know, we hang out, you hang out with other people at YC and people who are in tech and i just found that there wasn't really any tech podcast that interested me because it all feels very inside baseball and i was like maybe other founders aren't interested in this either because they talk about it all the time um so i thought okay perhaps we could focus on technology as a core, as like a pillar, but also do art and science and entrepreneurship. And then it's just been like getting a mix of these people. So yeah, a big driver is obviously if they have a following. Got it. But then, yeah. So you have a topic for the episode, then you obviously need to find someone to interview. It usually goes the other way. okay got it so tell me yeah tell me the order operations of how you put together a whole entire podcast okay so a common one is i ask someone at yc like you yep hey who do you want to do a podcast with you know kevin uh hail has done a few recently that's what that was um there are other ones for instance i did an episode with john preskill who's a quantum physicist at caltech and he suggested other people so he was like oh man you got to get like scott aronson leonard suskin all those people and so that's a really common thing um yeah it's just finding trends finding things that are interesting and like going from there and is booking guests easy hard or are there what are reasons why people don't want to do it because i'm sure some people said uh not really the more common no is not replying got it okay yeah but there are there are some fringe ones for sure where people say i don't know if i want to be on a yc podcast interesting um because there are certain brand connotations ah interesting yeah um, you're making this actually, to do a podcast sounds like almost like starting a startup. Like you need to validate your audience. You know, there's a lot of hard, long days of work to do. And, you know, maybe there's a lot of cold emailing. Cold outreach, essentially, and just like keep asking people to do it until they actually- And then keep learning learning too i think thinking about content in the same way you think about product is just like great there you go you can apply all the same ideas yeah cool um all right so how do you prepare for interviews in particular you have some interviews that involve topics which you're probably not an expert in like i physics, these kind of things. But you actually ask really good questions. So, yeah. How do you do that? So I think I would probably break apart the episode types. So there's episodes like Office Hours with Adora. Okay. I know you. I know the kinds of questions that come in. I don't really have to prep for that one. There's a middle level, which is a founder of a company like, say, Ryan Peterson at Flexport. I kind of know what Flexport does. I've seen Ryan talk before. In that instance, what I would do is find every podcast he's ever done and listen to all of them at like 2x speed. So you're like, OK, this is the stuff he's excited about. These are the anecdotes he's used a million times. Avoid anything that he's going to like have these really easy places to go. And the last category are the quantum physics type episodes, which, yeah, to confirm your belief, I'm not an expert in. Yeah. How long does it take? Like, for example, that episode itself, did you, like these, some of these, you these you don't have you barely have to do any prep for this one like did it take weeks or days or the first quantum physics episode with well there was a hard one before that too with ron adekari about gravitational waves um but the quantum one was more difficult that probably took two and a half days um between listening to john's talks and reading articles he's written, you know, with with other people. Scott Aronson, I read his whole book and you just like take notes on that kind of thing. But but ultimately, the goal is actually not to become an expert. The goal is to become informed enough that I know more than maybe the average listener but not so informed that we fill it with jargon and and talk about stuff that like no one really knows about or cares about that makes sense yeah but there are examples like the suscan episode which is one of the most popular ones uh we had planned for months and then the week before i hadn't done any prep yet the week before i'm like all right you know we know, we're going to meet here. No reply. Usually when that happens, it means that he's ghosting me. And so I didn't do any prep. And so I'm like, all right, he's ghosting me. He's ghosting me. He's ghosting me. We're doing the interview on Monday. He emails me Sunday night. And I'm like, oh, shit. so possibly the YouTube comments reflect my level of preparedness which is a separate thing to deal with what was the most challenging one for you? I would say that so John Preskill was particularly difficult because he's also very chill and so keeping it upbeat, keeping it interesting, keeping it fun but I would say the one I bombed hardest on was Jocko Willink and Mike Sorelli. I don't know if you listened to that one. Oh, the Navy SEAL guy. Yes, I remember listening to it. Yeah, I think I was just too nervous. I have this thing where when I get nervous, I laugh. Oh, no. It was fine, but we hung out afterwards and it was like, yeah, this is much better than before. So on the topic of keeping a podcast or an episode engaging, how do you, like you said, some people are just really chill and maybe they're monotonous or whatnot. How do you push them to keep it engaging? So usually there's, this doesn't come out in the podcast, but we talk before we start recording. Right. And so you kind of feed them what they should think about how they should act like you know basically like these are the norms of the show and most of it's just about making them really comfortable and we do a slight amount of editing usually almost none but if i edit anything it's often the first five minutes i'll just cut the whole first five minutes off because you're like, oh, Adora really got warmed up and she was into it at this point. And I can mix in an intro. People think this matters, but the intro doesn't really matter. I don't know. It's not a big thing that I care about. And actually, one of the best podcasters in this regard is Russ Roberts from EconTalk. Oh, i love that one yeah yeah so if you if you pay attention to his show he always starts with a not a controversial question but a question that's not a softball and i think that's a really great way to start the show got it because you you want to give them something that's interesting to them but you don't want to confront them and this is something that a lot of podcast hosts and i i fall prey to it too you don't want to confront them. And this is something that a lot of podcast hosts, and I fall prey to it too. You don't want to offend someone. And so you're really nice. So you ask them all these like softball questions, but you don't really go anywhere. And that's how you end up with like the Joe Rogan, Elon Musk episode. Did you see that one? Yeah, I did. It was so bad. It was like joe rogan's great and elon musk is capable of giving good answers but because he knows so much more than rogan and rogan didn't prep that much he just dodged him the whole time and he was fanboying yep so yeah yeah those get obvious after yeah the first 10 minutes it's like okay this is going down the yeah not gonna learn much here do you listen do you listen to full episodes normally or do you of any of any podcast? I try listening to Joe Rogan. I like his. So do I listen to the whole thing? Maybe once a week I'll listen to one. A whole week? In other shows you listen to the whole thing? I listen to yours. Thanks. Those are maybe the only two where I regularly listen to the whole thing. Yeah, I guess not much because this is something that i often think about because the metrics are not the metrics the analytics are so bad you don't really know like man should i just be cutting this down to yeah i think they're just different it's not like youtube where you can see where they just dropped off well you have apple analytics but they're not very good oh really and it's only a percentage of the market yeah okay i want to talk about analytics in a second um but um actually let's just talk about analytics okay so apple analytics there's nothing like mix panel or amplitude or any it's like google google analytics version 0.1 that's where apple analytics gets you because Because I think what might not be obvious to people is that podcasts aren't like YouTube videos. You don't upload your podcast to iTunes. You upload your podcast to a host, and then the host serves the podcast from an RSS feed. And because that's the way it works, what information you can get is like serves. Like it's been downloaded basically X amount of times, but you don't have any kind of that like retention data that you have unless you're using apple or using an embedded player so if you listen for instance on the yc blog in the embed thing done i know but got it that's it yeah so really only these podcast podcast players might know well they will know it given what that what uh for that episode i guess that it's actually played on their podcast yeah but i guess the players have you're seeing fragmentation amongst players now i've heard something like 60 is apple apple podcast okay got it so it's pretty big share yep but then after that it's just i think that there's a dominant player on android i don't have an android i forget what it's called and then there's a bunch of other ones cast box on android oh but it's actually not that one oh it's um i just googled for that one yeah yeah well that was a yc company that was like when they applied i was like no way the podcast app there's the podcast app it's like such a great name yeah yeah such a good idea um okay cool so what are other tools um that are indispensable for the podcast so maybe we'll start with software and then you've got a lot of gear but what i'll say is so i did my research and i listened to before this i listened to a lot of your first episodes oh no and so you can hear and which is actually pretty good quality but then if you listen to the last 10 episodes that you just did you can hear the sound quality it's like less there's less echo you can hear the voice more clear yeah um so yeah maybe walk me through like how what did you start with and what's the gear that like what's the mvp gear you need to get going and then what do you have today the mvp gear is this this is your phone you can record a podcast on your phone and don't let your gear disqualify you from doing it that's my main point but what i started with um back in i did a podcast before yc too oh what was it it's called it was great it was called salt of the earth it's still on itunes and uh it was really funny and in contrast to the YC podcast because it was in relation to tech entrepreneurs getting so much attention. My friend and I, we went to college together and we both grew up in New England. And none of our role models were tech entrepreneurs. They were like local electricians and stuff. And so we said, dude, why isn't there a podcast with these guys and ladies who are often very funny? And so we, it was like really hard to find these people, but funny, successful, small business entrepreneurs. So we did that. And, you know, we maxed out like 2,000 downloads an episode or something like that. But we had really simple gear. And so that was a Zoom recorder. So it has like four inputs. Totally great. was a um a zoom recorder so it has like four inputs uh totally great and ensure mics that were like you know 50 bucks each and the zoom recorder i don't know it's like 100 bucks so they're also usb there's this thing called the blue yeti which you can just plug into your laptop and record got it cool and then oh in the gear now yeah oh yeah i don't know if you're listening to this on a podcast craig like when he does an episode he he actually has a lot of stuff and one of the things he does is he takes down our walls these portable walls that are in another room and then he like drags them into like a really small conference room so i guess that's for sound but yeah and i think it actually ends up looking better too in a weird in a weird way but uh yeah so okay so what happened there was i realized after i started doing this podcast in this room that this is not the best room in the world to record a podcast but actually our office doesn't have many great rooms for that because you don't you definitely don't want a street window right but it also needs to like not be in use all the time and so i was basically left with like this room so yeah so i have these like sound blocking things to eliminate echo because my voice was getting picked up on your microphone and now it's a little bit you still get it but it's a little bit less because we don't do the headphones you've probably seen that before yes yes yeah i tried it and everyone freaked out i hate headphones exactly yeah i used to do when i was in college you had a radio show really and i was i i because you just you're hearing yourself yeah talking and i was the one who like was the annoying one and just you were the host no no no no i well it was like a talk show so it was like just gabbing it was like old school podcast i guess what was it about it was just it was uh we talked about news in the school and just regular politics and stuff like that i really hope this was not recorded and does not exist anymore oh that was my next question oh dude that's awesome but yeah it was a local college news station okay cool yeah yeah that's hard uh that's a separate question that someone asked that we should talk about hearing your voice but yeah so now we use um these are sure sm7b mics these are like 300 bucks uh the biggest upgrade was the recorder which was actually from a youtube comment this is called a mix pre 6 sound devices uh to make these sure mic sound good you need a bunch of what they call clean gain and our Zoom recorder didn't really do that. This thing does that. And then we record on like Canon DSLRs. So they're like, you know, less than a thousand bucks each. Okay. So your suggestion, step one, just use an iPhone because that's good quality anyway. Well, I wouldn't suggest iPhone as doing it. But I was like, you can conceivably do it with an iPhone got it but what I would suggest is if you're gonna move around locations all the time and even if you're not if you're gonna do the interviews in person get a recorder like a zoom h4n something like that get sure mics sm58 whatever they're like 60 bucks and XLR cables so the cables to plug them in and you can take it anywhere if you're going to interview people remotely get a usb mic like a blue yeti and then and then just and then do it over skype so yeah there's a uh i've used it one time i forget i'm bummed out that i don't remember what it's called there's podcasting software you can record online okay uh but if you just google it okay got it yeah cool um all And then how do you, and then what's the, sorry, this is really noob questions, but like, so you record it, you're editing it. Do you use software to edit? Oh yeah. So we definitely use software to edit. There's free software called Audacity. Okay. Again, you can take the file from your iphone put it into audacity you're good to go we use because we have video we actually just edit the video and then export the video audio to a podcast i see and then if you you've heard it before but like i record a uh an intro thing right got it yeah which is what i like but other people like songs other people like little clips from the show whatever yeah um cool and then you have to serve it and we use backtracks for that got it okay cool um all right so you mentioned your voice do you think your voice sounds awful when you listen to it it well i mean man you get used to it that's my answer okay yeah because you have to because you're the one editing too so you have to play back everything yeah okay so you just get used to it well because yeah my answer to this question is actually like well what how do you feel about your voice i i generally don't like it yeah okay but i it sounds different than when i'm like when i'm hearing myself i sound very different yeah than when i hear it on a recorded version is it lower higher how does it sound to you just not what I expect it's it's low a little bit lower I think okay I think I don't know yeah it's tricky because actually some people have figured out ways to manipulate in like post-production their voice to make it sound closer to what it sounds like in their head which is you know like I I often think about this I did a an episode of another podcast and it was bassier than we normally record at and i was like oh man that sounds like more like my actual voice yeah but uh yeah i personally i don't really like the npr tone like you know really like soft oh yeah i don't really like it so i'm okay with it but you get a my voice in in my head is lower but as soon as you start recording yourself on video all the time you're like oh man that's what i look like and then you feel like way worse about that so i yeah i got over it um okay cool so let's move to what you've learned from the yc podcast itself sure okay so let's start off with actually what what has been what's been the best interview your favorite interview so far um so my favorite interview so the most popular one is leonard suskind okay so that's yeah that's the most popular one uh but i've actually learned a lot from different people um i really like the uh michelle cuo interview with cat so that was about art and technology oh that's right's right. I watched it. That was a fun one. She's awesome. Then Ryan Peterson interview was a great one. He's got this like cool, like hustle but not annoying vibe, which I really liked. Rosalind Watts, the psilocybin, the mushroom interview. Oh, that's right. Yeah, that was like, because I mean i had heard about it but i didn't know it in that detail uh that was awesome um and then maybe some of the ones with my friends have been really fun cool it's like like uh my friend matt hackett started this company with casey nice that so i like that oh that was pretty cool yeah yeah um all right and what's the most surprising thing you've learned about startups after joining yC and interviewing so many founders like Ryan? Yeah. I mean, this is definitely one that you should answer too. But I think like a core part of it that wasn't obvious to me from the outside was how important confidence is and how big of a role it plays in just doing the thing. A lot of people, oftentimes when I meet them and they're interested about YC, they make up these things in their heads that disqualify themselves from starting. And a lot of the successful founders don't do that ever. And then they also have gotten into YC or some other thing and they have a little bit of wind behind them. And so they have just the confidence to do the thing. And I would say that's a learned learned trait and that's a skill that you can develop and a lot of people might not think it is but i i really do think it is um so yeah i i would just tell people like just do the thing and like know that you're good enough because they're just normal yeah like i don't know what would what do you say no say? No, I think that's a good observation. I think it's hard to, you know, one of the things as working with startups now that I do is during office hours, for example, is just keep the optimism of where this could go at a realistic but high level. Meaning like the every day, you know, the ground every day, you would not think it's going anywhere fast. But so it's always, I like to remind people like this is where, you know, you started this for this reason. Yeah. And this reason could um and and this reason could be bigger than what you even thought about what you thought it could be um but regardless you know you should always think about why you're doing something that's that's a really good thing too like bigger than you think it could be this is a big i mean big it's a it's a core thing in silicon valley that i like get some criticism and because you could say like all right not everything is venture fundable nor should it be sure but there's another way to think about that which is it's not as risky as you think it is and it's actually often easier to find people to work with if you're like I'm just going to build rockets now and you really stand out whereas like doing these like i don't i don't want to put it down but like hackathon level like sass tools isn't as compelling to people right now that's been a big takeaway for me as well um all right so i'm just i'm gonna start uh going through questions that twitter has twitter was great i didn't have to prepare much for this interview um so what have you learned from any of your guests that you've put into practice um okay i mean i think like the honest to god main thing is uh it's just gotten me super anxious about doing my own thing because you must do a startup now or something yeah yeah because you can only interview so many people where you're like i mean this is this is fun to do but you know being the host it just it kind of sinks into your mind as um i mean kind of reviewing yc applications too um as this observer of trends happening of things happening and you realize that you're just like this passing moment in someone else's life and it's cool and everything but they're like getting right back to their thing so i really admire that um that's been a big thing uh sam encouraged me to just like do the thing uh which is like always good and he's very helpful there uh mushroom interview very interesting and you can do your own research privately in different countries if you want to do that uh tim wong um he he did the container book with me oh that's right yeah and um he's been on twice he's the ai policy guy yeah i remember okay yes i've met him so tim's awesome and so tim is one of the only people i know who has been able to maintain cool jobs but also have all the like little side hustle projects going on and like his his work ethic is unprecedented in my mind for that kind of thing um i think maybe the last one is just realizing like it doesn't take that much to generate a pretty real following online by writing and communicating clearly i think like yc that's at the core of yc right like pgs essays or content marketing i mean they're cool they're obviously like valuable but it's you know yeah and uh you know like uh andrew cortina from venmo that's how i found out about him and even like michael like cybles essays are great and really help him yep so yeah i like them when they're to the point yeah i mean this is tricky right like that's just a style thing yeah like who are your favorite writers right now um i guess in the in that scene in the text scene i don't you know you don't read them that's what i'm saying this is the podcast yeah exactly what i'm saying um i wish uh pg would write more essays is what i'm saying this is the podcast too yeah exactly what i'm saying uh i wish uh pg would write more essays is what i um i'm secretly uh hinting at that anyway um all right so what are the what are the top what are the most counterintuitive or maybe non-consensus things you've learned about building successful startups after interviewing so many founders uh i think well okay i also i want your answer on all of these these are really cool questions um there's definitely no one model for a successful startup uh they're usually not riding some trend in the middle of the wave they're like way early so it seems weird. They're not doing AI, blockchain, da-da-da, right now. That's definitely a thing. And then I think they often are more focused on finding these really big problems than they are on just focusing on doing a startup or a company. And they're definitely not attached to a solution. A lot of these people, with that in mind, in my experience, there aren't a lot of crazy pivots, like 180 degree pivots. They come in and they're like, hey, I found this thing. And then all of a sudden they realize that it's like quite large or they change degree a little bit, you know, but it's not like a total turn. Yeah. And then the last thing is like, they're just normal people. I don't know. i think like they get built up so much i yeah i agree with that um cool uh what's your answer oh i i agree with i didn't it's a good question hi you know i i actually agree with the whole um what did you say about the ai blockchain though thing oh they're they're not in the in the middle of a big trendy wave. They're early. Oh, okay. So no, what I was thinking was, I think the best ideas are when you can explain the problem and even the solution without saying jargon, like without saying AI or blockchain. So I think some investors are, when you say those words, they're like i'm in um but for me it's i think if you can articulate it without actually describing the new tech you're doing like that's never that's always like the mechanism of which you're solving the problem but that's never you know i don't think that's the problem you're solving if that makes sense i totally i mean it's it's this question is like what mic do you need man it's it's a tools question right yeah but it's not a product question and that's the answer like i said content product same thing like do you make a good podcast do you make a good app or whatever you might be making yep yeah um okay so now that you've done podcasting for many years if you had to start one again from scratch okay how would you structure it okay so i have a couple notes on this but the thing is i kind of did start this podcast from scratch so in many ways it reflects my personal taste and how i like shows to go um if i were to do my own thing like not YC related from scratch. So that like the main constraint here has been, this is still my job. Right. And so in that way, I think in real life I would have in real life in like a non YC podcast, I'd have more like really strange people like weird, like definitely do not fit in this podcast. What's an example of that? Well, he's not okay so one one friend comes to mind he's not actually weird uh not that weird but he is an off the grid guy in the middle of vermont and so he's like built his whole cabin in the woods he's homeschooled all of his kids he uh is solar powered like all that stuff. But he's also, you know, a teacher out of college. And so he's super smart, but a sweetheart and like living this very weird, different life that I think appeals to a lot of people. So like stuff like that, where there have been moments where I'm like, is this like a YC episode? Eh, whatever. Maybe not. I mean, even like the Casey Neistat episode, I was a little bit like, I don't know if this is going to fly. So there's like a little bit of a branding thing you have to think about. Is that what you're talking about? Well, yeah. I mean, this is like a separate conversation. But given that the podcast has grown a little bit, you know, I have like 18 bosses. Oh, man, that sounds awful. It's fine everyone's everyone who i see is cool but like that like at any given moment i can get emails from anyone yeah and like this is how i feel about the podcast and usually it's uh an expression of personal taste and this is something that you have to get used to with creative work right it's like differentiating oh this is objectively good feedback even if it hurts versus oh they just have a personal opinion, they feel that way, and both strategies can work, which is really hard. Got it. So, yeah, so the answer to the question is, like, I would make it more weird, I would have, like, maybe, like, sillier people on, but I would definitely still do YouTube, do transcripts, do the podcast the podcast like clip the show as much as you can like i'm really bad at that yeah but like clipping it for youtube yep um and then like pro tips big names still work yeah like trends still work i don't do a lot of trend stuff but big names work do you see when you talk about um clipping do you see does that in whole unique wise um unique listener wise anyway get you more listens than people just listening it from the audio stream so what's tricky oh yeah this is a learning uh we have two youtube channels subscribe uh we have we have y combinator and y combinator clips right because what happened was initially i was like oh I'll just clip the show because this is great. It's great for SEO, right? You title like, you know, Jessica Livingston on finding a co-founder rather than Jessica Livingston with Sam Allman. Right. Right. And then you can make like five clips from one episode, which is cool. But when I put out all like seven videos on one day everyone freaked out on the youtube comments like what are you doing man like you're clogging my feed so i was like okay fine i'll make a clips channel the problem there is like the clips channel doesn't have that like flywheel effect so in the long run you see this with joe rogan like there are in aggregate like his show clipped out will do more than an individual episode but but you need an audience before right yeah which requires like yeah bigger bigger names help in that way right makes sense yeah um one question why are more podcasts not actually videos on youtube because people are dumb by people you mean podcasters no uh okay uh no it's it's more work right and i think this is actually like a fairly new revelation like some people have been doing it for a while but i don't think it's been as obvious to people that you can even just like upload a still image of you and then the audio and that would be a thing yep um yeah but it's interesting that you actually thought in reverse like i want to start a youtube channel because that's where the audience is yeah and then i podcasting is a excuse to get that content yeah um what's that smart well the question was i met with michael in this room when we were talking about it and we were like where are the youths hanging out you know what i mean and i was like man it's i don't know like a lot of these other mediums are kind of feel aging to me whereas youtube's just gonna be young or it still is young yeah oh and then you guys started instagram yeah that's another thing i'm bad at so thanks for reminding me yeah it's like uh you ever do snapchat too we didn't do snapchat i held out because people were like oh you want to be like the yc personality on snapchat it's like no fucking way we had justin for that yeah yeah uh but we clipped the podcast on youtube on instagram and that actually does really well too um it just takes work all right yeah yeah um all right so what patterns have you recognized in just from your life just from yc but when a when a yc podcast when an episode gets popular or viral what are the reasons for that like besides like big name yeah big name is like an easy one um usually it's some certain like cohort of influencers grab it online and then it just goes like this has been true and i i won't go so far as to say any of the episodes have gone viral like okay definitely not but one of the strategies for the physics episodes was we want more people to apply who are studying physics and there aren't that many big names in those communities therefore if we get the biggest names in those communities we can get them to at least know about yc right and so what i realized there it was like those communities again not viral but as soon as anything is shared within those communities everyone shares it and so you have like john preskill will share it but then like sean carroll will share it and then uh you know like scott aronson will share it and it's like one, two, three, four, five, six. And so, yeah, like finding these like small, but really tightly network communities works really well. It's almost like you want guests that are maybe not within startup tech itself, but it kind of adjacent. Just, this is like how i differentiate no it makes sense because i'm like okay i mean actually a really good example of that is uh mr money mustache do you listen to that one uh what was that one so that was about personal finance and like saving your money okay so this has been a crazy trend happening in the past maybe 10 years uh about people saving high high high percentages of their income and quote retiring early right so i think pete that this guy mr money mustache uh saved up like something like 600k and owned his house outright and then he you know quote retired at 30 and it's become he's become like a figurehead and a cult cult leader i mean yeah the episode is called um uh don't start a blog to start a cult and this comes from one of his talks. But people at YC were like, dude, what are you talking about? Like, start a cult. But he has this passionate following of, in large part, software engineers because they earn so much money, it's very easy to save 50% of your income. And so, yeah, I was like, oh, this is tech adjacent. This physics thing is tech adjacent. People like taking mushrooms. That's tech adjacent. That was more of a trend thing, actually. But, yeah. Cool. All right. So, in terms of the future of podcasting, so it seems like it's taking off now. And one of the primary problems, I guess, is it's hard to make money. Yeah. I mean, it starts with it's hard to measure, but one, it's hard to make money. What do you think is the future of podcast monetization? I think there are a few possible avenues. I tweeted this out recently, but with the Spotify Gimlet anchor deal, right? It's conceivable that a lot of these podcasters get on contracts with big companies like Spotify and are just paid. Because for the majority of them, they're not making more than $1,000 a month off of ads. If you're not a big podcaster, a lot of them aren't making any money. And they actually don't care all that much about having maximum distribution which is different than rogan because rogan wants to sell comedy shows he's monetized his podcast this is why comedians dominate podcasts like they have a business plan right here this is all marketing and their content super interesting so they've figured it out the people who've had products on the side have figured this out for a long time. I think we're going to see a decrease in CPM around podcast advertising because it's been like a racket. And now I think it's really thinned out. As in it was? More lucrative than it is now. I see. It was higher than what it actually performed. Because it was just made up, right? So you're mailchimp i want 20 grand i see and they're like okay fine and that's how it goes uh so yeah and so i think that'll be a trend um i think we're gonna see some kind of patreon model work out in some way i wouldn't be surprised if we saw more like tipping happening that will probably be a new app uh stuff like himalaya in China, for sure. Yes. With tons of educational content. Yeah, that's a great one. And one thing that I've really been surprised at that doesn't exist yet is super expensive podcasts. Huh. Like $10 an episode type? More. So you listen to Hardcore History? I have, yes. It's free. That could be 50 bucks an episode. Yeah. Easily. yes that could be it's free that could be 50 bucks an episode yeah easily like you see this stuff like master class happen like why isn't hardcore history expensive right and then you're seeing more i guess we pay for audiobooks yeah so i guess there's you're saying there's something in the middle between audiobooks which we pay a lot for and free podcasts well there's like i i heard this last year but i'm not sure if it's totally true. Last year, or whenever it was quoted, the audiobook market was $3 billion. In the same year, the podcast market advertising was $300 million. Then when I talked to my friends, I was like, wait a second. There's this huge gap here because most people are actually listening to podcasts, not audiobooks. There has to be some kind of thing in the middle, especially around educational content, where people will pay a lot of money to have you and like teaching them and educating them. Because I think there probably is like a definitively best American history teacher and a definitively best Mandarin teacher. Right, yep. And you, I don't know, I'd pay $1,000 a year for their podcast or whatever. Have you heard of The Great Courses? Yeah. Yeah, that seems like kind of I don't know. I'd pay $1,000 a year for their podcast or whatever. Have you heard of The Great Courses? Yeah. Yeah. That seems like kind of in that spectrum. It's more like audiobooks. It's like Internet 2.0, though. I think there's like a new, like a bigger version that will happen. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. The Himalaya is actually, I think, if you don't know about it, you check it out i'm trying to get the podcast on it right now oh really yeah it's like this big complicated thing yeah um all right so do you think okay so there are so many podcasts out there yeah um do you think it will become saturated like the music industry or do you think the music industry is saturated no i thought that question was like a false premise i don't think music or like is youtube saturated i don't think so is blogging saturated yeah i mean there are a lot there's a lot but that doesn't mean like you know like you said like pg doesn't write an essay a day for you like and yeah yeah and would that be enough maybe not even yeah what do you think is missing in the podcast world uh i guess we talked about the educational content yeah i mean there's like a lot of missing stuff around monetization for sure but i think in many ways it's like going to be about people committing like a lot of people do it on the side um or they've already had a product right so i think shifting that model to be like hey this is this is valuable. You should pay for it. I'm making really great content. And that might require some kind of like basic income salary from Spotify. So if I'm like, hey, Adora, you want to make kids say the darndest things. Here's whatever, 30 grand a year. And that's enough for you to get really motivated to make all this stuff. Because oftentimes, like you don't see it because itunes doesn't make it obvious but itunes has hundreds of thousands of dead podcasts and they just like never get it going enough to commit right yeah it's after three or four and then it just kind of yeah it doesn't go anywhere yeah and then you're done yeah yeah and then you quit and so like that's a good idea so you oh so maybe so what you're saying spotify might do the net model of, or what you would hope is that the Netflix model where they commit you to a certain number of episodes and then you just go for it. And then if it does well, you just redo. Think about it, right? So I heard that Jerry Seinfeld signed a $100 million deal with Netflix for comedians and cars plus some other stuff. Okay. How much could Spotify sign Adora for? Probably less than $100 million. And so, you know, you could imagine a world where like they hire 100 podcasters at $30 grand a year. They all work from anywhere in the world and they just make stuff that people are really into for Spotify. Because like at $30 grand per person, that's actually not nearly as nearly as much you know as like paying for all of the i don't know lady gaga royalties so yeah i could see that happening um in terms of podcasters so you've obviously you listen to lots of podcasts what has been been, you talk a lot about Joe Rogan, but who else has been like the most influential for you? I think Russ Roberts is great. When I started the YC podcast, I had just heard about EconTalk. He's been doing it for a long time. I still don't know why that show is not bigger. Yeah. Like it's pretty big, but it could be bigger. I wanted to do a combination of econ talk and rogan where it's like interesting people who are technical but it's also fun because the econ talks can be a little dry sometimes uh i really like those but i have dude i have like this whole list i wrote down of other shows i listen to um so another dead so there are a ton of dead podcasts that are still good uh there's one called seventh avenue projects so this is by this guy robert polly who lives in sf somewhere or nearby sf uh it's basically like an npr science show and the interviews are great they're like an hour long it's got it's got the npr vibe but if you can get past that it's cool uh there's another podcast i listen to called barbell medicine so have you uh ever gotten into lifting weights at all not really okay so i got into it last year because i hurt my back and i was like how do i fix this and people said well you should lift and i was like okay cool so this is podcast called barbell medicine and it's two doctors who talk about medical research as it relates to exercise oh and so they like read a bunch of papers and say like oh you know like creatine is good or like this protein's like garbage and like this type of exercise does nothing and this is why you should train like you know three sets of five versus something else uh surprisingly interesting uh dead authors podcast you listen to that one this one's also dead it's a paul f tompkins uh bringing on comedians who imitate dead authors and they have like it's like an interview show but they do it in their voice too yeah yeah yeah but it's i mean it's all goof like oftentimes you don't really know who what their voice sounds like but the borges one with nick kroll is amazing if you want to check it out uh berkshire hathaway so yahoo got the rights to the berkshire hathaway board meeting or the not the board meeting the conference the shareholder meeting shareholder meeting that's a podcast oh wow which is awesome uh i have a couple more okay the nine club if you're into skateboarding growing up nine club is amazing okay they interview like a bunch of skateboarders from back in the day it's's fucking awesome. My buddy Spencer does one called Prepared. That's about manufacturing. I did an episode on that. And Startup School Podcast by Seth Godin. Did you ever hear that one? No. Same name. Yeah. It's from like 2012. Okay. It's actually really good. Cool. So. All right. That's my list of stuff i'll check out all of those um how did you discover the dead podcast or that author podcast uh i subscribed when it was still active or i mean like the the dead because because i um when i have a topic that i'm interested in i'll go and search for it and then that's how i discover some of these podcasts that don't really exist anymore yeah so what like what ones are you into that are dead well i'm not into it i just listened to the one episode yeah okay i don't actually have you checked out um listen notes yes that one's good listen notes it's awesome because that you can they index everything yeah yeah that's a big thing but i mean it should be said discovery is totally broken yes which is why the clipping this is this is what i think will happen like there will be some version of a podcast app that resembles youtube clipping that's a podcast app and so what happens with youtube clipping is you just get in this like five to ten minute clip one after the next after the next and like himalaya is much more like that right than the standard model of feeds and stuff yeah more twitter questions i mean these are this is these these are trying to get unrelated but we'll just finish off with some unrelated ones but what podcast you listen to i told you you have the yc one i listen to i do listen to econ talk i listen to um tyler cohen cohen has yeah has a good one. I listen to Recode Decode. Okay. That one. Why do you listen to podcasts? What? Well, I will preface with I actually listen to audiobooks much more. Oh, okay. And so when I'm kind of tired of listening to the audiobook, I will either switch to music or podcasts. Okay. And so it's kind of my other thing that I listen to. But are you kind of tuned out when you're listening? You're like doing something else? No, if I'm doing something else, I'll listen to music. Okay. But I never listen to, like it's hard to listen to audiobooks especially, but also podcasts when you're tuned out. The tech ones are actually because it's like. You know what's not listening. Yeah, I guess I'm not learning anything entirely new. And so you can just listen to it while you're doing something else. Yeah. So that's what I do. Okay. Yeah, I'm similar. Yeah. Patrick Bender asks, what idea do you believe in that your social group would think is crazy? Oh, yeah. Okay. So this is why I'm glad we got this question beforehand. I had a moment to think about it I think cushy internet jobs are bad for innovation okay like what's an example of that any any fang job where you just like show up and kind of do work got it and for that reason I think jobs should have term limits on them. Unless you're like the founder. So like basically reverse vesting. Yeah. So it's like, hey, Adora, you've been a partner at YC for five years. See you later. Yep. And you, yeah. That's actually not a bad idea. And it's kind of implied that like, you know, if you go join Sequoia or something, you're like, okay, fine. Yeah. you're like okay fine like yeah because i've it's related to this uh early retirement thing but i see a lot of people like maximizing that and just staying on at big companies and it makes me mad because they have so much talent and they like they have safety nets they could go do stuff so interesting i think maybe somewhat related to that i think there should be forced sabbaticals totally like after you work for so many years you should take time off to like just do something else to like get the because i think if you work at a company especially if it's like just one position and on one team you just kind of get stuck in you that, you know, that creativity flow and just thinking outside the box gets a little bit harder after some time. I've been surprised that that's not like a bigger employee retention thing. Yeah. I know some companies do it, but it's after like quite a while. Yeah. How, so Kat did one last year. Yes. Kat, who's also a quite a while. Yeah. How, so Kat did one last year. Yes. Kat, who's also a YC partner. Yeah. Yeah. And she came back because she had all these thoughts, right? And then she came back and she was like super excited and really happy. And I was like, you know what? I kind of didn't feel like doing anything and that was okay too yeah like i got i got off my phone and and to her point that's totally fair yep but i do feel like that the four sabbatical would need to be longer than the company oh no yes i i haven't thought about how long it should be at least six months yeah three six three months three six months i think it's such a good idea yeah it's like if there was an even greater incentive for them to basically what I'm saying is like I want people to leave their jobs. But like if they were like, you know, we will decrease your salary if you return or like we'll give you some seed funding or something. But then you see this stuff happening at Google, right, where they're like funding internal startup things. And it just feels like employee retention. Right. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. I haven't thought through what the right mechanism for that is. But yeah. Well, because I'm curious about you. Like if you. How long have you been at YC? Two and a half. Three years. Almost three years. Yeah. We started roughly around the same time. Yeah. Yeah. Like how much time do you think you would want to like really consider? Yeah. That's yeah. Three to six months is probably I think because then I think it lets you just focus on other things that again will help you with your job actually. Yeah. And anyway. But yeah. This is the thing like a lot of people don't know this about you at YC but you've jumped around between a bunch of stuff. Within YC. Within YC. That's right. ground between a bunch of stuff within yc within yc that's right whereas like some other people haven't right right and so you're kind of like always looking for right for me it's my version of add yeah yeah totally and is that also in the back of your head like maybe i want to start a city or maybe i want to do this on my own yeah i um we'll see i i and back my head is always what's the next startup sure yeah so Yeah. So that's always and I think we talked about this in our episode. Probably. Maybe. Whatever the case, you know, it's on one hand being at YC is great because you're with all these founders and you're motivated about startups in general and there's so many ideas. On the other hand, it's like one week I'm obsessed with this one idea, and then I talk to another founder, and then I just ping-pong around ideas. And so it's very hard to stay focused on your own stuff. It's tricky, right? Because I can see it going both ways. Because with all of this stuff, it's all good. There's no objective right answer. But yeah, I can see that intellectual game being really compelling. Yes. Yeah. But then you're also- It's addictive too. Totally. But you're also like a maker, right? Yeah. And so that shift might happen. Yeah. Watching people build and you're on the sideline not building is really rough. So you have to come up with at least hobbies, side projects that often go uncompleted, unfortunately. All right. So Zachary Cannon asks, oh, okay. So this is one of the application questions for YC. Please tell us about the time you most successfully hacked some non-computer system to your advantage. So I kind of mulled over this one for a while. And I think that silly world record actually might be the best one because it had like the largest outcome. So basically what happened was there was this trend in cycling, whatever I did, it was like four years ago, where people were climbing the height of Everest on their bike and they called it everesting and i was like i could probably do that um meanwhile like i'm not i mean i'm heavier now than i was then but even then i was like 170 pounds which in cycling is like heavy like you're you're the fattest cyclist if you're 170 what's the typical weight i mean the guys who win are like 135 140 and they're taller than me. Wow. So they're stronger than me too. They all look very tall and skinny. They look like skeletons. Yes. Yeah. So like you're looking at probably like 5'11", 137 pounds, something like that. And they're stronger than me. Yeah. And so I'm like 170 pounds and yeah, not that skinny. So yeah. So basically what I did was like i did that everesting thing and it worked and i was like oh i could do more of this and so then i created a spreadsheet of all the hills in the east bay where i could like maximize how much elevation i could get in like the shortest distance while also being like close to a bathroom close to also like not having enough traffic or not having too much traffic like something that my friends could get to so they could like help me out and uh yeah through that spreadsheet i like unlocked this place that just worked for me and so that's basically how it happened oh wow yeah that's pretty cool it was pretty cool and you achieved your goal i achieved my goal of ever staying exactly and then my life was over quarter life crisis yeah yeah basically and then my life was over happily ever after yeah you had a quarter life crisis yeah yeah basically and then i like left the country all right um cool so last question what so you obviously talked a lot of founders and being at yc similar to myself um do you ever feel the pressure to just go start a company and if you're going to start a company what would what would the problem be be that you want to answer for this one for yourself okay i'll answer first then um the answer is yes i do feel yeah oh oh yeah okay so yeah the answer that's a leading question totally yes yeah of course um yeah that's another thing that's not really talked about much on the podcast or in public at all but working at yc and managing at yc is a weird kind of like cat wrangling where like the default personality type is like solo founder kind of vibe and like they everyone just wants to be doing their own thing all the time it's like boxing people and it's kind of you got a bunch of ceos yeah former ceos basically with very different styles which is actually kind of interesting like it hasn't been selected for like one vibe um but yeah anyway uh i think the answer is definitely yes and where i'm kind of focusing right now is i'm i'm getting this impression that like people want freer lives and i think you see this with early retirement but i also think you see it on the other side with like basic income and then i think you see it in the middle with like marie condo and so there's like there's just this vibe that people want like potentially less stuff potentially simpler lives potentially like more freedom and so i think i would probably develop a product in that space around one of the things that's like most expensive. So like probably a housing thing where it's like a ton of your income goes into this. But it's like this aspirational thing that leads you to leaving to leading a freer life. Interesting. Yeah. So it would be. OK, I think I understand. Well, I mean, I mean it's i'm a little vague because i think i might end up doing it but like it's uh yeah cool all right anything else about you there's like there's tons of adora knowledge that hasn't been on the podcast you've only done it like twice right i've only yeah i think i've done it right three times i did it once talking about startup school and then once random questions from the internet. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I probably should do more podcasts or do more writing or something. Yeah. If you want. So what's your like, what attracts you as an idea right now or like a market? I don't know. That's a good question. There are a bunch of things. I think anything related to making life in a city better, anything from starting new cities to just mobility and housing and stuff like that I'm interested in. So we're funding more of those things at YC. That's cool. I'm very on the other polar opposite. So it's kind of ironic. I'm also interested in this is remote collaboration and remote work stuff. Yeah. And trying to figure out what are the tools that can help kind of replicate the, you know, I think a lot of like Slack and video and stuff like that. That's all that's all well and good. But the thing that you still don't get is the serendipitous yeah nature of living in a city um and is that possible when you're not uh you know actually physically together um and i think if we can get if we build something to get there then you know maybe cities aren't as needed um but yeah, anyway, that would go in the face of 2,000 years of, you know, of why cities are great and why it spurs innovation. No, no, totally. Like, dude, if an alien showed up, it would be, oh, humans build these things. Like, that's like our one goal. We take over the earth and, like, build these things. Yeah, so those are two topics come i'm starting looking to um brain computers and stuff like that oh like neural link type stuff yeah yeah stuff like that really but but yeah i'm just i'm just starting is there anything cool happening right now like anything working i i'm such a beginner right now yeah yeah but uh what else yeah and then a lot of stuff in emerging markets um there's just a lot of uh good engineers that are starting like good engineering talent that's um popping up in and not like obviously india and china are the obvious ones but places like Jakarta, we have a company in Iraq, this batch. And so they're just building a lot of basic, I mean, it's probably to us in America, it's kind of basic digital infrastructure stuff. Okay. But I think it's what's going to spur innovation and spur the economy of a lot of these places. So I'm really excited. Would you, yeah. I mean, I think it's cool. innovation and inspire the economy of a lot of these places so i'm really excited yeah i mean i think it's cool like obviously there's a lot of arbitrage stuff people can do with so much engineering talent but like would you build home joy in iraq like would you be excited to do a thing again if you i don't think that would work there um but um yeah i've pretty much decided i i don't think i want to work um like the next company i build is not going to be in the o2o space like heavy operations it's like it's um it's going to be more in software and stuff like that yeah but but i don't know it depends like i want to work on a really good problem though first and foremost and, and how I go about solving it, it's whatever. So if it ends up being that, then it ends up being that. Um, so my mind doesn't first go to that. And also I'm, I think it requires local talent to get that stuff right. Um, and so I'm more interested in the position I'm now, which is helping them. Um, do you think like start things and think about how to go about you know setting up operations and um and how to think about metrics and stuff like that and getting off the ground yeah um but yeah so i i prefer to work on that level okay in emerging markets uh but it's fascinating to me so when are you like when is an opportunity going to be good enough for you to feel that it's right um i think what is it i mean i think on two levels one is um people you work with and so finding the right team to work with again um and then to the problem again it's something that where i don't get distracted from so it has to be really compelling to me right like if i can come up with this while I'm at YC, that'd be amazing because I get distracted very often with new cool ideas. And so, yeah, I think those are the two criteria for me. Yeah, I want for you a lot of things. And so, yeah, I'm just like, I'm not gonna go full like Luke Eisman and like scream at you. But it's always a thing like it's something I care about. Yeah. So, yeah. All right. Well, that has been a fun, long podcast. Thank you very much for doing this. And I hope others have learned. OK, thanks. All right.