 Hi everyone! If you could take a seat, that would be awesome. I'm Kat Mignolet. I'm one of the partners at Y Combinator. I wanted to thank the Riveter for hosting us here today. I love this space. I know, I'm like, I wish I lived in Seattle so I could work here every day. So I'm Kat. I'm one of the partners at Y Combinator. And for those of you who might not be very familiar with YC, we fund startups. And we funded about 1,500 companies since 2005. And actually, one of my partners, Kirstie Nathu, who you'll meet a little bit later today, has personally seen 1,000 startups, over 1,000 startups go through the program. Yeah, she's incredible. And so we have run Female Founders Conference for five years now because we've personally seen how important it is to have a community of people around you if you want your startup to be successful. Building startups, so how many of you are building startups right now? Awesome, That's incredible. So, as you know, building startups is hard and oftentimes very lonely work. And so, if you have and build a community of smart, hardworking people around you who can push you, who can ask you the hard questions, who can help you through challenges, your chances of success are just going to be exponentially more likely. And so the Females Founders Conference community, as I said, has been, you know, around for about five years now and it's about 6,000 women strong and we've seen some women in our community do incredible things. For example, Resh Machete, she was one of our speakers two years ago. It was just announced that her company is now valued at over a billion dollars. Ginkgo Bioworks, right? We have a woman who was in the audience three years ago at three female founders conferences ago. She was in the audience and she wrote in her notebook. In two years, I want to be on stage. She was on stage as a speaker last year and she's going to be on stage today. It's Avni Patel-Thompson who's building a poppy here in Seattle. And in this batch of YC, winter 2018, we actually just funded two women who met two years ago at a female founders conference. They started talking two years ago, they stayed in touch, they started building side projects together, and now they're working on their company full time and are in the batch. So I hope that is the case for all of you today, that you start meeting each other and helping support each other as your companies and projects grow. So we at YC, I want to see more women starting companies. And for those of you who have already started, I want to see building a platform where women can learn from each other and help each other as they grow will help us get there faster. So today you're going to hear from women who are at various stages of building their companies. So you'll hear from folks who are at seed stage, folks who raised in the 20-plus million dollar category. You'll hear from a bunch of investors. And I hope also that you meet women who you're sitting next to today and you'll keep in touch and support each other in the community as your startups take off and grow. So the first speaker you're going to hear today is Avni Patel-Thompson, the founder of Poppy. Poppy is a site that connects parents with great caregivers for their children. So Avni and her co-founder went through Y Combinator in winter 2016. And she's also an incredible advocate of the Seattle startup community. And Avni is really one of the main reasons we are here today. So welcome Avni. Hi everyone. It's just so amazing to see you all here today. It is amazing for me to have the FFC up here. For those of you that know me and my story, the Female Founder Conference is an important part of my story. And I've just always loved the energy when you get all of these incredible women together with ideas and big, bold visions. It's just lots of impressive things can happen. So I'm Avni. I'm the co-founder and CEO of Poppy. Our mission is to build the modern village that every family deserves. We do this by connecting these talented, vetted caregivers to families when they need childcare. On the caregiver side, we find amazing folks that have a passion for and a talent for childcare and we connect them to families so that they can make some extra income on a flexible schedule. It's beyond just your average kind of sitters and nannies. These are teachers and stay-at-home moms. They can be dance instructors and camp counselors. Really just incredible people that have a passion and experience in child care, and then we connect them to families as their safety net. This is pretty exciting to me because I'm a parent. My husband and I have two little girls. Saya is almost six and Aria is three, and we have been there. We have been there where both of us are working, we don't have family in town, and inevitably something goes wrong. Your nanny is sick, a meeting runs long, and when you're stuck without your safety net, it can be a major issue. And so I started Poppy not because I've had this lifelong dream of starting a childcare company. I started Poppy because I had a problem, and it was a problem that I was convinced that technology could help me solve. But it didn't matter that I have never worked at a software company, let alone build one. It didn't matter that I'm not a developer and had no way to build an app. And it really didn't matter that at the same time I embarked on this journey was the exact same time I decided to start having kids. All that mattered was that I felt like parenthood was broken in a little bit of a way. You know, parenthood is hard enough and when you are going through all of these things I couldn't imagine a future for future parents that felt this broken. And so for me it was if somebody was going to be building a future that solved this, it might as well be me. And so that really was the genesis for Poppy, where I thought I could use technology to be able to solve a really important problem, not in my life, but in other people's lives. And the thing is, I thought that if we could solve this... So today we're about ten people. We are thriving and we're growing really quickly. And if I look back on the journey of the last three years from the first very idea of Poppy all the way through to where we are right now, I think the thing that I reflect on is if I let all those things that sort of stood in my way, all the reasons that why I shouldn't be a founder kind of stop me from doing it, Poppy wouldn't exist. And that's sort of a shame. It's more than a shame. It's a big, important idea that has to have its chance. And so I guess what I worry about is that how many other people are focused on all the ways and all the reasons and all the obstacles that kind of stand in your way, instead of figuring out a path to how we can figure out to build these amazing companies. So that's what I want to talk to you today. It's something that I'm super passionate about. If I think about this last three years, I think there's sort of two big phases. This sort of phase one that I like to call kind of get going or live to fight another day. And there's the second phase which is get growing or you know just proving that this concept really can scale. And so my hope is that if we can talk about this openly, the stages even to get to where I am today and there's so much more that we have left to do, so much exciting stuff for us to do in the future, but if I could get even 100, 1,000 more companies, more founders to the stage that I am right now, think about all the incredible problems we'll be solving. Think about all the incredible founders we'll have. And so that's what I want to get to, so that if we can talk about this openly, maybe we make this journey a little less mysterious, a little less lonely, and definitely a lot more accessible. So that's what I hope to do today and share just a couple of the things that I've found not necessarily so intuitive and hopefully in doing so we can start a dialogue and start getting more people started and going. So to start before I get to the idea of Poppy, a quick little background on what brought me there. My background has nothing to do with tech. I actually have a pretty traditional corporate career. I started my career at a company called Procter & Gamble. They make things like Pampers and Tide and Crest. And when I started there, I had the opportunity to be trained in their vision of brand management. And what that means is they taught me how to see consumer problems, not as consumers say them and speak them to us, but as they actually experience them. And that's a really important distinction because when you're trying to solve consumer problems, often people can't articulate the real pain, the real friction that's going on in their lives. And so I started there. I went on and I did my MBA, did consulting for a little while. I continued in sort of my big company path, all very traditional. All the way through to my husband and I moving to Seattle. And I was at Starbucks, and still a really engaging, really great career. But I think at that point, for me, my entrepreneurial sort of bug had been, I was bit by the entrepreneurial bug. And at that point, I said, you know what? I wanna go start something. It was about 2012, lots of people were starting lots of interesting things. And for me, I thought I come from a world of retail e-commerce and I have a great passion for you know the world and culture and travel and now that I had my first daughter I was really also passionate about passing that culture on to my kids and so a friend and I started a company called Papaya and Post. It was a subscription e-commerce company aimed at raising culturally curious kids. Basically think about a different month, a different culture, done in a really thoughtful, I thought, and engaging kind of way. Languages and food and things like that. And, you know, I did it in all the ways. I did my research, I did the numbers, did the you know, I did it in all the ways. I did my research. I did the numbers. I did the business plan. I did all the things I was supposed to do. Built the product that, you know, we would have loved to have for our families. And then we launched it. Spent a lot of money and a lot of time, I mean, relatively a lot of time. And as it turns out, it was a beautiful product. People did think it was great, just not enough to buy it on a regular basis. And so that's a hard lesson for those of you that have e-commerce companies. You always have to make sure that customer acquisition cost, for us, that was just too high. We had such a niche market of folks that had the interest and the drive for a second culture to share that with their kids. And then the LTV or the long-term value also wasn't there. And what that means is just how many of those boxes would they buy over their lifetime? So we learned the hard way that that just wasn't in sync, the customer acquisition cost and the LTV. And ultimately we came to the decision to shut that down. And that was a hard process, but I think the right process because you have to be true to what your intent is. And my intent has always been to build a scalable company that disrupts a category. And again, even in my background, in my previous career, it's never been the what. I've worked on footwear and apparel and food and Bev in healthcare. My connection to that has always been working on really important consumer problems. And in the same way here, for me, I really wanted to build a massive company that just took a massive swing at something. And so it was really hard because I thought I did everything I was supposed to. I used up, I had talked to, my husband and I had talked and basically said we could go a year without you taking a salary and I'd used pretty much all of that Europe and I'd used pretty much all of the money that I'd set aside for startups the savings that I'd put into this and so that was sort of a tough position to be in but as I started to talk to parents about why wasn't this the thing that you needed or it didn't solve a problem urgent enough? Then what are the problems in your life? And I think It's it's funny How themes just kind of come up over and over and the thing that kept on coming up was the topic of childcare And not really even oh, I can't find a nanny or my sitter just cancelled on me What was underneath was everyone was saying I miss my village. I miss that safety net of knowing I could text someone that I trust and know that they'll be there when I need them to be. You know for so many of us we move around for our careers, for our education. Communities aren't necessarily what they used to be. You know asking a neighbour to take care of your child is a hard thing. And so we don't have those villages, but that function still is necessary for us as parents. And so as I started to talk to more and more people, I could see the solution. The way that I talk about this is that I have a chemistry undergrad and I think about it in an equation. If village is a function of someone that you trust, is a match for, is a function of someone that you trust is a fit for your family and is available when you need them to be, then that can also be approximated with a vetting mechanism, a matching algorithm, and some sort of scheduler. And so for me, I could already see how I could, I had a hypothesis on how I might approximate village using technology at each of these key kind of pieces. Which brings me so to the point in the idea of Poppy. And so now, if we think about that first stage, what is so important of get going, I had a couple of problems. First of all, I could see how I wanted the solution to happen, but it was a tech and an app solution. And I'm not a developer. My traditional background didn't have me working with engineers, so I didn't have a co-founder ready and lined up. And more than that, I had run out of basically time and money that I had set aside, forget about myself, but my agreement with my family and my husband to go and do this. And so I guess the point is there is that I was, if it was already constrained, I was under lots of more constraint. And so if I think about the first stage, which is about getting going, the whole point here is about validating if your idea matters. And so if I had this much, all of these different constraints, how could I still buy myself the time to validate the idea and figure out whether I even needed to worry about co-founders and tech and all that kind of stuff. And so my mantra was pretty much just solve the thing in front of me. If I could solve the biggest problem in front of me I'd figure out the next one next. And so in that instance, it was I needed to buy time to do more things. So I basically, basically, to give myself some kind of structure, I gave myself the construct of four weeks, can I buy myself four weeks to be able to show whether people want what I'm making. And so I approximated the whole flow that I'm talking about using just off-the-shelf things. And that is one of the most exciting things of living in the tech world today is that there are so many off-the-shelf solutions that for very few things, and especially for consumer problems, you can just literally build something off the shelf. And so I did that. For me, what am I trying to do? I am trying to connect vetted, trusted people with families when they have gaps in care. Well, so I found three UW students, vetted them in any way that is the top of the line, background checks, references, in-person interviews. Then I found 15 families in Madison Park where I was living, and I said, hey, if you need a caregiver this week and you have a gap in care, just text this phone number because SMS is a great communicator. And that day we got our first booking. And that week we got our first four. So great. I've got a baseline. I've got four bookings, and I just need to grow it next week by 10%, which is five. It doesn't sound like a lot but it's it does two things. One it's discipline. If you hold yourself to 10% growth every single week I assure you that five grows pretty quickly. And then the other thing is that having having a goal and then hitting it and for me I because this actually struck a nerve of something that people really needed and wanted, we ended up growing faster than the 10% in those early days. So instead of five, we actually ended up at six, and then so on and so forth. And that is an incredible confidence booster, especially coming off of a failure when you really don't have any data points to suggest that you should go give it another shot. And so the four- week test for me did a couple of things. It reduced the risk for me, who's like, I'm a pretty risk averse person. And it made it, I could devote four weeks and I took it, I gave it the $200 that I had left in my business bank account. And I said said I can spend another $200 and by doing that that sort of time bound and risk bound all of that and then as we got going I could quickly see how consumer both both sides just wanted and loved what we were doing and so parents would tell other parents signups would just start coming in and I can't tell you how different that is versus the first startup when you're just trying to tell everyone to do something and no one does it. And this one, you're not even telling anyone and they're just signing up and things are coming through and it feels incredibly different. And so that was really important in the early days is that when you're talking about validating your idea, your purpose is learning. It's not about optimizing for revenue or all of those things in these early days. You just have to pick something and get going. So for me, that meant just starting with some kind of pricing mechanism that we think made sense and just get into market. And so for me, at the end of the four weeks, it literally was something that I couldn't shut down. It had just gained a life of its own which is amazing and it felt really great but also when it's just you doing all those things in a pretty janky way you need to just keep it going and so what those four weeks bought me was not only time to keep on going but I quickly realized what my next problem I had to solve and that was I had to find a technical co-founder and that made that pretty apparent and so I continued to keep everything going and growing to be able to buy that additional time but I quickly turned my attention to finding a technical co-founder and I think I'll pause on this thing because I think there's a lot of you know women out there that don't come from technical backgrounds, maybe don't have engineers, and I think there's a lot of options open to us. You can work with a dev shop somewhere. You can work with a contract engineer. You could even have a VP of engineering that reports to you. I'm pretty biased, but I have a strong feeling that if your intention is to build a tech company, you have to have a strong feeling that if your intention is to build a tech company, you have to have a tech partner alongside you. And that means co-founder level. That means someone who's at the table constantly pushing each other on ideas. I'm non-technical, so by definition, I cannot see the disruptive ways that technology can solve this problem. And so for me, even though I had all of these folks that were saying that, you know, either dev shops or other types of engineers, I was pretty clear that I wasn't going to pursue those paths, even though it would have been short-term relief that would have sort of cut the vision and the ambition of this idea off at the knees. And so, and I'm not saying that this is easy this is one of the hardest things I almost died and I've said this before but we almost died through growing too big too quickly without somebody else to build the platform and so it took probably about three or four months and just constantly talking to as many people as I could to find the right person because again for those of you that have a co-founder that's awesome because you know how hard it is to find these people that can be in the trenches and be that lifeline for you there's of course division of labor but beyond that it's almost the emotional support of there's so many ups and downs on the thing and so you can be the highest high on one day and at noon the lowest low and so you need sort of that partnership to even that out. And so it took a couple months. Talked to so many, what feels like hundreds of different candidates. But finally, I had the chance to connect with my now co-founder and CTO, Richard. And we ended up clicking just right off the bat. We started talking about ideas, really loved that. But ultimately, it came down to, can we work together? And so we just set it up, again, as a six-week test of, like, can we work together? Can you build something from a platform perspective? And can we work together? And let's just see by doing. So again, not a lot of talking. We just got to the first point of saying, are you in? Are you in? And just got going. That was really important because by doing that, we both were able to see and assess whether we were good partners, whether we were both engaged in this mission. And this is something that we could do together. I later learned, and because this is also one of those most common questions that I'll get, how did you find a technical co-founder? As it turns out, by me focusing on growth, that also helped me solve this problem. Because if you can imagine, for talented engineers, think about how many people are coming to them and saying, I've got an idea, you need to build it. That's not awesome. And so what he was excited about was that I had already started and gotten going. And so he wanted to come on and, you know, get onto that rocket ship and get it going even faster and further. So that solved my co-founder problem. The next thing was we needed money. And so growth also helps you with that because you can dismiss me, but you can't dismiss my growth. And so that helped when I applied to YC in the interview I was able to show the actual growth that people actually wanted what I was making it also ultimately helped us get our incredible investors I'm not saying that in raising money is ever easy but certainly this time around because I could focus on what we were building the actual growth that was happening. And this wasn't me talking in ideas. It was really important and we were able to raise that money. So this stage one is really about validate your idea, get to 100 paying users that love what you're making, and you'll be able to figure out and just focus on growth you'll be able to figure out the rest. So stage two is about get growing and get to a place where you get to a product market fit and you're ready to scale. A lot of this is about growing up and into a company and I found that my role as a founder sort of had to shift from putting out fires and just surviving to evening out into the marathon that is a startup. And so this for us started after we returned from YC. We raised our seed round of a little bit over two million dollars and now we had the chance and the space and the time to actually build Poppy into what it can be. So the first thing here is about hiring about a team and I thought after 10 years of having experience, you know, with big companies and hiring, I thought I knew how to do this. And it took me many months and many tries to realize I didn't. Things like references, things like prior experience or pedigree of what school you went to don't matter that much. What does matter is commitment and resourcefulness, passion for the mission. And one really great example I like to share is about our head of ops, Rebecca. At the time that she emailed me, just out of the blue, she was a Poppy parent using Poppy. And she was just intrigued at what we were doing and what we were up to. And so she just emailed me out of the blue and said, we'd love to grab coffee. And I was intrigued as well and love to talk to interesting people who are using our product. So I said, why not? And as I talked to her and as we started to, you know, just chat about all the challenges, I realized here is someone who maybe hasn't done operations or worked at a startup but is so engaged on the mission, knows it, then what could be better than having empathy for the product firsthand and wanting that kind of passion for doing it? And so I think in that I could repeat for so many roles at our company. So hiring becomes less about pedigree or past experiences or things like that, but the people that can prove to you that they have a passion for your mission and your problem and can get in and get going. prove to you that they have a passion for your mission and your problem and can get in and get going. The next thing is that you need to build a company and it needs to even out. You need to do things that maybe you had a hypothesis on different business model things but now you need to have actually have a sustainable business model and so for us for example at the beginning I started with a pricing thing where we had a membership parents paid us membership and then they just paid the caregivers. That worked, but it didn't work so well for us. We didn't make nearly enough money for us to be a sustainable enterprise. And so we had to take the, pricing is always a hard thing, but we had to make the decision that if we were going to survive, we would have to take some cut of that transaction or the hourly rate. And so we did, we talked to tons of caregivers and families. We did all the research and we, you know, built it into the systems and we put it out. Poppy did a lot of growing up that week. Not because it wasn't the right thing to do. It was and it is. But because I think I had underestimated how much early users feel ownership of your product. And so we had never talked about margin issues. I had never talked about some of the challenges of being in this category. So people felt blindsided. And I think the lesson that I took away that day was those early users are a part of your company, and you need to bring them in, and you need to respect them with transparency. There's lots of these types of examples, but in this phase you are going to need to make hard decisions to make your business sustainable in the interest of having it survive. Just be mindful of the fact that make it as transparent and bring your users along through a lot of those changes. The last thing I'll just touch on is two sort of, it seems like minor things, but one is things like investor updates and the other is mentors. There's a reason I didn't talk about advisors and mentors in the first phase. It can be a distraction at that phase. You know what you need to do to validate your idea. There's no one else that can tell you how to do that. You just need to get there in the trenches and do it. But the second stage as you as you settle into the marathon, you the founder need to surround yourself with one, two, a couple of people that you trust to be the mirror to you. Because your job is to always advocate for the mission and everything like that, but you need someone to hold yourself accountable. And so having a couple of those folks that don't necessarily agree with you on your points of view, but can push you on those important things, those are really important people to have. And then my quick point on investor updates. It feels like a little one, but I'm always surprised at how few people do it because it feels scary and it feels like, you know, maybe I'm messing up and I don't want everyone to know about it. It's important discipline to start as early as possible. And to be fair, I didn't do it until after YC. But it's important because, again, it holds you accountable and it's the least that you can do for your investors for the privilege of their money. So that's basically what I feel like were the most important parts for stage one and kind of phase two for my company to get to where it is today. And I guess I feel like if we can get so many more companies and all of you to even that stage, I think that would be an incredible kind of thing to get to. The last thing I'll just kind of touch on is a couple of points of how to scale yourself as a founder. I think so many people say being a founder is hard. It is. It is hard for all the reasons that you might expect and so many that you don't. The most important reasons, I think, is because you need to be really sure you want to be a founder. And what I mean by that is it isn't just the sprint at the very beginning or maybe a couple years in. You have to be sure you want to do this for the next five, ten years of your life. Maybe it won't take that long but you know often it does and so do you want to devote your life to that? Great, answer that question. Next, talk to your family, your spouse, anyone else. Make it very clear about your intention because it's important to create the space to be that founder because it's going to be brutal and you need to be able to be sure that you can make that commitment. It's also okay if that answer isn't maybe yes. There's a lot of us startups that could use amazing smart people to work at our startups for a couple of years until you figure out whether that's the thing for you. It also gives you really amazing experience to then start your startup at an advantage. The last point I'll make is you need to take care of yourself. I think for myself, because I'm a parent, because I'm a founder, it is too easy to say I don't have time for that. And I have learned through doing and making this mistake that that is another way to kill your company. And what I mean by that is you need to give yourself the time to take breaks. For me, it's yoga. And that's sort of like a three in one for me because it gives me a chance to sort of work out, give my mind a break, and just reassess and rejuvenate. Because if you as a founder aren't at your peak, you can't provide everyone else what they need. And I think the parallel to parenthood is really great there. So many of us parents just give and give and give, and then you realize you're just completely burnt out. It's the same thing with startups. You don't get yourself to that point where you have nothing left to give and you're burnt out. And so if you make that as a part of your practice and you create that space, I think that's just a really important thing. So, YC applications are due on March 24th. That is 50 days, 7 weeks. If you haven't started, that gives you 2 weeks to plan something, four weeks to do it, and one week to write the application. If you have started, seven weeks to go grow, and that application will just write itself in a day. My point is, is that we need more people standing on this stage at this phase to even have a shot at all these big bold problems that we all have. So let's get into that arena, let's build those big bold companies and most of all let's stop focusing on all those hurdles that lie in our way and figure out how to just get started. Thank you, Avni. Next, you're going to meet Kadrin Cowansage, who I have the pleasure of working with at YC. She's a software engineer at Y Combinator, and she's the founder of Leap, an online community that I'll let her tell you more about right now. Hi. I'm Kadryn. As you heard, I'm a software engineer at YC and the creator of Leap. It's a private online network for women in tech to talk about whatever we want. And I'm so excited to be here and to tell you about it. So I first started working on Leap because I didn't feel like I had a place online where I could talk openly. I felt like conversations online often escalate quickly to shouting matches and people opt out, especially women. And I wondered what would happen if I created a community where the core culture was set by women and the product and software decisions were also made by women. I couldn't think of a community like that, but I wanted to be part of one. So the idea for Leap actually first started at the first Female Founders Conference. I'd flown in from New York, where I lived at the time, and I was sitting in the audience and was struck by the number of smart, driven women all in one room. And it was strange because in my day-to-day life, I had a handful of female friends who worked in tech, but it felt like there were very few of us. But when I looked around the room at the conference, I realized how many of us there actually were. How many strong technical experts with so many great ideas, so many connections, and so much power. So when I started working at YC, Leap started as a place where me and my colleagues could just kind of talk and get to know you know more about our ideas and what we were thinking about and once I validated that we actually wanted to use the product I and fix some bugs we started sharing Leap with the the network of female founders at YC, our friends and former colleagues, and organizations that support women of color and organizations that support women in engineering. So another part about LEAP is that we use our real identity, it's on there. And that is, you know, the idea behind that is that in my life, the relationships that have been the strongest are the ones that are was a hybrid social and professional community, that it would foster civil discourse and authentic conversations. And so that was the core of Leap. And the idea is that those kind of relationships can help propel us in the industry. On Leap, you can go talk about your favorite book with another member, and then a few days later, or whatever it is, that other woman can help you find your next job or your next investment. I've already heard stories from members about finding co-founders and finding new jobs. So that's super exciting to me. So we are at this point about 2,000 members strong. We are software engineers, founders, VCs, designers, writers. We work in sales and operations. The list goes on. So we talk about all sorts of things too. You know, one day it's conversations about career development and the next we're talking about, you know, tactical issues we're having with our companies. We talk about everything from relationships with our partners to raising kids, our favorite books and our favorite podcasts, you know, all sorts of stuff. So if you think that Leap sounds interesting, you can go to leap.ycombinator.com. So that's Leap. You may see it over there in blue in a few minutes. It's leap.ycombinator.com. And we'd love to have you join. So looking forward to getting to know you on Leap. Okay, hi everyone. Next part of the session is going to be a fundraising panel where we have three ladies from the Seattle scene who are going to impart some advice on how they've approached fundraising and some of the lessons that they've learned. My name is Kirsty Nathoo. I'm one of the partners at Y Combinator. I'm the CFO there, so I look after all of the finance for both YC internally and also helping founders with raising money, looking at cap tables, understanding dilution. So seen a lot and seen a lot of things happen during fundraising. Just to give you a couple of stats, in 2017, only 2d 2% o'r cyllideb yw'r cyllideb i'r cwmnïau sy'n ymwneud â phob gwneud, ac dim ond 12% o'r cyllideb i'r cwmnïau sy'n ymwneud â'r cwmnïau sy'n ymwneud â'r cwmnïau. Felly mae llawer o waith i'w wneud yno, ac rydyn you ladies in the audience can help to change that trend and really get those numbers up in the future. So I'm going to pass over to the ladies now. They'll do a much better job of introducing themselves. So each of you, if you want to just explain a little bit about your company, who you are, and how much you've raised so far. Hi. Thanks, Kirstie. So I'm Beth Kolko, and I am the co-founder of Shift Labs, which is a medical device company here in Seattle. And I started the company after being a professor for many years, including at UW. And we have raised a total of, well, $1.7 million of dilutive and then a $300,000 grant, so just about $2 million, which for a med tech company is not a lot. And we have a product that's on the market and approved in the U.S. as well as Europe and a few other places. So that's what I do. That's what I have been doing. And fundraising is, well, I will just say this. When I told my partner what I was doing, he said, you know, don't take this the wrong way, honey, but you've done a lot of things really well, but they do know that fundraising has been the hardest thing for you, right? I was like, yeah, it has been. So maybe that's why I'm here. My name is Amy Nelson, and I'm the founder and CEO of The Riveter. And we're really excited to host the conference today and to have all of you here. We launched this space, our first space, in May. The Riveter is female-forward workspaces and community for business and impact. We launched our second space in September. And we have raised a pre-seed last spring of 720,000, and then we're about halfway through a seed round right now. So in an interesting position to be on this panel, kind of in the middle of everything. But fundraising is hard, but it's necessary, and it's important to learn how to do it and how to do it well. And so I'm happy that we can all be up here to tell our stories and that small piece of that. Hi everybody I just want to say that I've never seen this space look more beautiful than today and I've seen it before but it looks amazing you're all incredibly beautiful. How many people here are in the process of starting a company or have started a company. Awesome. Congrats. And we are here for you. And each other. My name is Kristen Hamilton. I am the CEO and co-founder of KORU. We do predictive hiring. So we're helping employers choose the right talent using machine learning and AI and ultimately leveling the playing field to provide access to opportunity for people based on things like what they can do instead of where they went to school. We've raised $15,000. It's $15 million. Sorry. $15,000. You've done so much. A little more. We've raised $15 million in three rounds. This company, there's a story in each round, but I'm guessing we're going to get to that. One stat I'd like to share that someone shared with me that was daunting but interesting. They said you're more likely to get struck by lightning than to get a term sheet from a Silicon Valley venture investor. Citi told me that when I was in the process of fundraising. So I just want to be here to say that it's all possible despite the odds, and getting more and more possible. So this is going to be good. We have a lot of different perspectives here. So first of all, let's talk a little bit about where the money came from. Did you raise money from people here in Seattle, or did you have to go further afield? And if you did go further afield, did you see any real differences in the different geographic locations that made you have to change your approach? So we raised, we went through YC in winter 15 and before that we had done a small incubator here in Seattle for a kind of social conscious companies called Fledge. We did a small, we raised a little bit of money, mostly friends and family kind of stuff before we got into YC. Most of our money was raised as a result of YC's demo day. I've got to be completely honest about that. So MedTech is pretty traditional in terms of investment, at least med devices. Our team didn't come from that background. That was sort of part of our superpower in terms of investment, at least med devices. And our team didn't come from that background. That was sort of part of our superpower in terms of thinking about the product, but it made fundraising really challenging. So what worked for us was to tap into people's optimism and desire to change the world. And so the investors who really came into that first seed round after Demo Day were people who believed in the vision and also were willing to think not just about the US but globally. And so most of those investors came from California, came from Silicon Valley, some came from other parts of the world as well, some institutional but a lot of angels. And so they just, it seemed like they had more appetite for risk and they were surrounded by more risky things and so they were willing to look at us and say, hey, why not? So that was a big difference. Future fundraising activities, similar to where you're at, is, you know, now we're in a different position and now we actually are reaching out into that med tech community, which again asks, is not as interested in risk and has different kinds of metrics and so it's about adapting to that so we definitely see differences geographically as well as based on what people's backgrounds are and I'll talk about the angel round that we raised and then how I have approached raising the seed round an angel round that we raised we raised on then how I have approached raising the seed round. And the angel round that we raised, we raised on a safe. So an important kind of precursor to going out to raise is deciding the vehicle on which you will raise, which is something I had to learn about. I was a lawyer for 10 years. So it was brand new to all of this when I started this a year ago. So we decided on the vehicle we would raise on. And then I kind of stumbled into my first angel investors by attending events. So I went to Startup Week and I raised my hand. I think you were on the panel I was at. Was it the mompreneur panel? Yes. And I raised my hand and asked a question and prefaced it by talking about my business. Because I would say that is the one thing you have to talk about what you're doing to everyone because you never know who you're talking to so you know I raised my hand and asked a question about the business and afterward a woman came up to me and asked me some questions about it I ended up pitching her and she became my first investor my second investor I was in my daughter's co-op preschool class talking to another mother who I barely knew about what I was doing and she said you should talk to my husband he's a serial entrepreneur he became my second investor and then introduced me to my third and fourth investors and so for me that was really a lesson and you you don't know you know who who does angel investing and who you know who you're talking to who might be interested in your business on the flip side I then went ahead after those kind of instances I went ahead and made a list of people in my network or people I wanted to invest. And then for the people I wanted to invest, I found connections to them. I was super methodical about it, you know, spreadsheet going on LinkedIn. I want to connect to person X who can introduce me, asking the people to introduce me and seeking out those really warm connections, which I think is massively helpful in fundraising, which makes sense because it's easier to say yes to taking the time to listen to someone or listen to an idea if you have an introduction from a trusted person. And then the final piece, I guess, about the angel investing piece that I learned a lot in the pre-seed round is that that early in a company, and I was raising money when the Riveter was just an idea that I had, you know, I had a deck and an idea and myself. And angel investors and early, early investors are largely investing in the founder and what they think, if they think you can pull it off. And so you have to be really confident that you can and project that and present that every way that you can pull it off. And so you have to be really confident that you can and project that and present that every way that you can. With the VCs and approaching the seed round, at the beginning I don't think I was incredibly organized about how I would go out and do it. And then I realized what I needed to do was put together a full deck, which I didn't want to do because it's like a high school project. Like, oh, I have to sit down and write all the slides. But it's really, really important because it's what people will look at when they're, you know, being introduced to your business and thinking about it. So made a deck and then I sat down and I made a long list of VCs that I wanted to talk to. And then once again, I figured out a way to get warm introductions, which it took a lot of time. I completely underestimated how much of my time as a CEO would go to fundraising in the early days. But that's kind of – and then I've gone geographically all over the country both times. So just in terms of where our investors come from, they come from Seattle, they come from San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, Boston, everywhere. Which is everywhere the Riveter will be. That's nice. Los Angeles, New York, Boston, everywhere, which is everywhere the Riveter will be. So. Yeah, that's nice. Yeah, when we were on the Mompreneur panel, I asked when the Dadpreneur panel was gonna be. I was like, what is that? So I've raised money in seven different rounds of venture, and one failed. So seven plus one failed, plus an IPO. So scattered geographically everywhere, I would say. And my learning has been to generalize and stereotype, Silicon Valley investors are the most risk tolerant and do the least due diligence in some. They have had so many more reps, you know, it's just about learning, right, than most of them, many of them, than other cities. So that city has just, that environment has just seen so many more iterations. It's definitely a unique environment. And then Seattle is emerging. My first company was started in Seattle. We did not raise any money from Seattle other than some angels who jumped in after we had a term sheet. But it's definitely emerging. There just haven't been that many venture capital funds in Seattle. And I think that it has been initially maybe more of a follower, but it's really exciting to see what's happening now in Seattle because there's increasing number of venture funds and more dollars in Seattle. And the nature of Seattle's history in tech has been more enterprise and B2B. So therefore, you know, raising money for a consumer business in Seattle was a little bit harder. And again, that's evolving. So there's differences and nuances, I think, geographically. New York investors are financial investors. And they do a lot of due diligence and they ask me questions I had never been asked before that would make people in Silicon Valley roll their eyes so it's really interesting but I think the differentiator about the fundraising I've experienced is more relevant from early when you haven't raised money before versus late when you've raised it before so a good friend of mine is the CEO of procom he said that said that, Kristen, we know who's going to lead our next round. We don't know who it's going to be, but we know that person. We have a relationship with the person who's going to raise, who's going to lead our next around. And it was a really interesting thing that he said, because I thought, yeah, that's right. It's not, I'm not going to go to a stranger at this point because we have relationships but that first round that first time you know it was like beg borrow steal and I was also 28 years old so you know it was really really hard and so to me that's just the the difference is is geographical to some extent as I described but I think it's different strategies depending on where you are yourself in your fundraising evolution, and then also, obviously, where you are in your company, of course, as well. So how does, in terms of that strategy, how does it work, even if you're raising a seed round or a pre-seed round, or whatever you want to call it, everybody calls things differently, even that early first money, you're talking to a combination of individuals and to institutional investors of one form or another. How do you change your approach or do you talk differently to each of those sets of people? How does that work? I guess I have thoughts on this, being kind of in the middle of it. So I have a background in political fundraising because I was able to go out and raise money for candidates I believed in, which has been very helpful in this. And I think the main difference that I've had to learn between raising from individuals and raising from institutions is that it is less of a conversation when you're talking to institutions. I think when I started, I kind of went in more conversational, how I am, you know, just me. And I realized, I kind of sat back after the first few pitches and thought, you know, I used to be a litigator and I know what going into a meeting like that is and being very professional and talking about a deal. And I needed to go in and say, this is my business. This is an opportunity I'm giving to you to join something I am building that will show incredible returns, is a great business, and I'm a really good CEO. And this is the deal, and I'd love for you to join me, and that's it. And I think taking that approach has worked a lot better for me. It doesn't feel entirely natural. It's not how I approach conversations with people every day. But this is a business conversation and to present it as such. And then also, I have learned the further I've gotten into this. And I only have nine months of experience in this, so I am not an expert. But you have to nail the numbers. You need to know your numbers inside and out. You need to know the model that you built, why you put those assumptions in, how things can change if you don't, you know, if say there was a downturn, how would it change this or x or y, but you really need to know your numbers. You come across as much more knowledgeable about your business and you do actually know your business better when you know the numbers and I think that's something that we don't talk about enough, but that really, really knowing the numbers that you're presenting inside and out is so critical. Yeah, that's definitely a sad fact, really, when out fundraising, that women are held to a higher standard in that. And really knowing your numbers inside out is absolutely crucial, because as soon as you start wavering, you lose the confidence of the investors. I'm going to just add something. As someone who came to fundraising with very little relevant experience. So I'd been a professor, right? I know how to teach a class, but that was pretty much it. It turns out I didn't know how to build a medical device, but... So I didn't have a list of people to go to. I'm going to second this spreadsheet warm intros LinkedIn. Anyone who knows me knows how much I hate social media, but LinkedIn is my best friend. I spend a tremendous amount of time looking for those warm intros that can be made. But when we first worked on raising, we did it for years. I mean years, talking to everyone. The first check came from a friend who had a company and gave us their supply closet, basically. Turned it into an office for us. And he just saw us working every day for years on end and saw the terrible things that were happening. You know, all the typical stories you hear about investors. They all happened. And he just watched us go through it. And he saw how dedicated we were. And that's where the first check came from. But my co-founder and I, we didn't know anybody with money we didn't have any family with money we didn't have any friends with money well turns out we did have one but you know so I guess I what I want to say is even when you're new at it and you don't have it that existing network perseverance is that's what you need that's really all you need is that perseverance I'll just share one quick story. One quick story. The first ever check that was written was by the guy I'd worked for for my first job after college. So I was a consultant and he was the partner who started this consulting firm for tech companies and I killed myself for him. I was really, I worked at sleep under the desk and so forth and he and I was getting, I was an immigrant so I got a green card through him and and actually that was a huge deal because I was essentially a prisoner in this company so I really didn't have a choice. So I was, I really did I but I was the person that made his life okay because he he didn't have to sleep under the desk so I did that for four years or something. And then fast forward, I start this company with this guy I went to college with, and we're like, here's our idea. And I went to his office with Glenn, and we sat there, and I'll never forget, he hand wrote the check for $25,000. And he slid it across the desk and he said don't lose my money. I was like, okay. I was terrified actually. I have a I can I really am the most responsible with I can't stand the idea of losing someone's money. It's like Canadian puritanical work ethic thing, but I would say that the lesson is that in that is the first person that will write you a check is the person who knows you. I think to the point of you were in their supply closet or I was, you know, sleeping under the desk to make his life better. So he saw what I was capable of and they invested in they'll invest in you as opposed to necessarily your company. And it's funny. Now I do some angel investing and I invest in people, you know, people I know really well. And when they're starting something it sort of almost doesn't matter what they're starting as I know them that well so I think a lot of angels to actually think about it that way and I one quick thing to add to this because we've talked about LinkedIn a lot for warm introductions you might kill me for saying this but like Kristin Avni K, who you will hear from later, they have all made introductions for me. And that's what your community will do for you. You are a female founder. This tribe will help you. You just have to ask. So I think it's been made fairly clear here that fundraising is pretty hard. It's a long process and it has ups and downs so how have you learned to cope with the lows of it and what support networks have you been able to leverage through that okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna tell my nightmare story I won't tell the nitty-gritty details but there was a horrible thing that happened just an investor was completely inappropriate. And it was in a Starbucks on Mercer Island. So it was really public and I couldn't even get outraged. And then I had to take the bus home afterwards. And so I'd kept my composure in front of him. And then I got on the bus and I'm sobbing and I'm just texting everyone I know, like, is this normal? This person said these things. And they're all like, no, it's not normal. and I'm just texting everyone I know, like, is this normal? This person said these things. And they're all like, no, it's not normal. And the next day I walked in and my co-founder, I was telling him about it, and I'd been texting with him, and he said, I want you to write it down. Just write it all down right now. Write the story down. And it was sort of this purging thing. But basically your network. I mean, the people you in everything else in your life, they will support you through the lows because there will be lows. There's no way around it. Everyone, men and women, fundraising is really hard, but it's also crucial. I'd say other than a lot of red wine, my co-founder because there's nobody else to party process with in that way. We go to the party, which was not really a party. We have the pitch and then we process and we process it to death. And we wonder about the body language in the room and whatever. So for me, I've never, I actually, I'm a co-founder. I'm not a founder. I mean, I'm just in my core, I think I just prefer to co-found things. And so it's a team. And that, for me, has been my saving grace. You know, there are days I do well at processing and days I don't. I think, for me, knowing the expectation is really important. That I'm going to hear no all of the time until I hear yes. And just accepting that and knowing that it's absolutely not personal, even though it can feel like it changes the bar for me. I am on my own pitching largely, which is somewhat different. But I rely on my team a ton to talk through things with me, to prepare me, to bounce things off of. I talk to my family about it a lot, too, because probably they wish I wouldn't, but I do. And it's good. And, you know, I just, I take time out to exercise, which is really important for me and my own mental health, because you can let this consume you 24 hours a day, and you should give yourself an hour, right? You should give yourself an hour a day. I think that's really important. And you're going to hear horrible things. You're going to hear things that people wouldn't say to men. But it's really equally as hard for men and women in terms of the number of investors you're going to have to pitch to before you hear yes. So just a good attitude is really important. And red wine. OK, so we just have a couple of minutes left. So I guess for each of you, is there anything that you wish you'd known when you were starting that you can share with the audience here so that when they go off to do their fundraising, they've got that piece of advice in their mind? So there was a time with my company where I was working to raise. So essentially for MedTech, we raise this money to build a device. It's really expensive to commercialize devices. I should have raised more money to commercialize it, and I didn't. And I started, and it was hard, and I was like, oh, I'd rather just talk to our customers because they love me. And that's what I did. I let myself stop doing the hard thing. And then I did the comfortable thing, which was I'll work on sales because I love doing that. And, you know, that's where I get the positive feedback and it's not where I'm getting the relentless no's. And that was a mistake. I should have stuck with the hard thing. That would have been better for the future, for the growth trajectory of our company. So don't be afraid of the hard things. I think for me, it would be, as I was going out to raise the seed, I wish I had said, I am going to start raising the seed on this date. And at that time, I will have my deck ready. I will have my list of VCs I want to approach ready. And I will just go and do it. And I kind of dragged the process out a little bit on the front end of not having everything prepared and starting to talk to people. And I think every time I go forward, I'll have my list of people I'm reaching out to, the dates I'm going to fundraise. Like you make a business plan, make a fundraising plan. I think that's the best way to put it. I'm gonna give you something very tactical that I didn't do before and I started doing in this company which has been incredibly helpful so the first few times you pitch you're terrible and sometimes so they say go with the you know that's the right way to say this the the VCs that seem like your least favorite maybe or the less you know impressive I don't know what the you want to have some reps so don't have those reps with an investor. The only other person. So the fundraising process is an unfair equation because as entrepreneurs, we raise. I've raised seven rounds of venture. It's a lot in a career. Mostly you raise two, three, right? One. And venture capitalists are doing many, many more deals than that. So they've seen the picture before so The only other person who can really give you good feedback other than an investor is a CEO who's raised money So what I started to do is I do this like I don't have a name for it But all in one day I asked my friends who are founders who have raised money successfully to come for 45 minute chunks and We pitch them and we get in a room and there's no like you know pretending it we they're an investor and we are pitching them and we go for 20 minutes or whatever and then we get feedback for whatever those the rest of the time is and they're like relentless you know which is exactly it's a gift that feedback is a gift so we did that and in one day we pitched whatever four CEOs who had raised a ton of money and sold companies to Google. And like that value was so incredible. So find ways to do that. I would just highly recommend it. And then think about that feedback. Once you start actually pitching investors, the best, you're not going to get a yes on your first pitch, but you are going to get feedback. So that's your goal. Your goal is to get that feedback and when you call them you don't say are you going to you know invest you say I really want your feedback and they'll actually respond better to that and you really want to write it down and think about it and ask people if it seems like good feedback and weigh it against the feedback you get next time which is completely the opposite of what they said. But really, I mean, keep really notes on your feedback because some people don't learn as they go through the process. And each round is a learning process, even though you've raised before. So you have to just really think of yourself as a beginner all the time. Okay, well, I can actually talk about this forn am awyr, ond yn anffodus, rydyn ni wedi cael amser. Felly diolch yn fawr iawn i'r tri ohonoch am rannu'r wybodaeth hwnnw a rhoi'r cyngor hwnnw. Rwy'n gobeithio bod chi nawr sy'n meddwl am ddechrau start-ups a mynd allan a chreu, bod gennych rywb have some really helpful information there. So yeah, thank you again. Hi, everybody. My name is Amy. I'm the batch director at Y Combinator, which means I manage the founder experience during the three month program after we make an investment in you guys. I'm also an executive coach with a background in psychotherapy for the founders during the batch. So if any of you have mental health tech things, come talk to me or email me, amy at ycombinator.com. Is Lucy from Slido in? Thank you. Субтитры подогнал «Симон» Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Субтитры подогнал «Симон» Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. All right, everyone, if you could take your seats. We might have started corralling. I know, right? Yes. We're going to start hurting. Step away from the snacks. Don't be afraid of the chairs in front. There's a few up here. Our next speaker, Kieran Snyder, who is the founder and CEO of Textio. So I actually started hearing about Textio last year from a number of YC alumni who use and love Textio. So they use Textio to analyze their job postings. So Textio is used not only by startups but also by large companies like Johnson & Johnson and CVS and basically they analyze data from job postings from around the world and they can tell you which are going to be more successful. So, Textio has been around for about three years, and they have raised $29.5 million. Yes, which is amazing. And what I thought was really cool, a really cool detail about them, is that about 50% of their team is female. And female or non-binary and their board is over half female as well. So, before yeah. Thank you. I think that does deserve a round of applause. And so, before Textio, Kiran held product leadership roles at Microsoft and Amazon. So, I'm really excited to have you meet her today. And so welcome, Kieran. KIRAN SHARMAIRAJANI- Hi. How many of you had heard of Textio before today? That'll help me level set. Oh, that's really exciting. So I'm Kiran. I am the co-founder and one of the founders and the CEO of Textio. We're going to go back a little bit through my journey getting to Textio and a little bit of our journey as a company. I'm going to walk you through today five really important decisions we made that have massively accelerated us. As Kat just mentioned, we're a Series B stage company. We've raised $29.5 million so far. And three years and three months ago, we didn't exist. Okay? We were founded in late 2014. Thank you. So you can do this, too. Right? I'm going to show you when you leave today, you'll be like, yes, I'm ready. So a little bit about me. Whoops, too fast. There we go. Those are some old pictures of me. I grew up with a dad who is an engineer. He's 78 years old. He's still running his own company. He's totally my hero. He started it when he was 40. I started Textio when I was 40, so I've literally seen the entire journey of his small engineering company. My mom was a writer, and I grew up to be an engineer and a writer, and very much formative in what we do at Textio. So when I went to college, I double majored in linguistics and math, which was a really present combination that I didn't know would be present at the time. And then I continued on and I got a PhD in natural language processing. And I met someone else here today who is a graduate of the same program that I was in, so that's really exciting. But really my whole life, in one way or another, from childhood all the way on up, was about the statistical measurement of language with math. I chose linguistics because I didn't want to pick between math and language. I've always really liked both. I've been coding since I was three. I was really lucky to have a dad who was an engineer. So at my age, it was pretty unusual to have computers in your house when you were three, because I'm in my 40s, but we did. I won my first science fair project in fourth grade by writing an early dating application in basic, for those of you who are old enough, where if you put in your name and answered some questions about you, it would say the name of the person in the class that you were going to marry. Right? However, the people didn't know about if, then, and go to, so it was a really great coincidence whenever the boy I had a crush on put in his information, it said he was going to marry me. Teacher was a little suspicious, I think. The other thing I did a lot as a kid was I played sports. I played sports forever. I still coach my three daughters in basketball today. But sports and teamwork were a huge part of my upbringing, and it really gave me a major appreciation for teamwork and tenacity. So if you have daughters, get them into sports. It pays dividends forever. That's me as a little kid. That's me on the upper right in middle school. I've always had a flair for performance, with a mullet, by the way. Still was willing to do that. And that's me in grad school with, I don't know how much we had had to drink at that party. But as I came out of graduate school, I didn't know what I wanted to do. I spent a year just writing and ran out of money. And I had a friend at Microsoft at the time who said, I really think you'd like working in technology. You should work in software. I was like, no. I hate all those people. I went to grad school with all those people. Not interested. He's like, okay, but you said you needed a job. You're out of money. Good point. And long story short, he was right. I am absolutely a technology and software person. So I was at Microsoft for about eight and a half years. And it was a really good experience for me. I was hired as a computational linguist building spell checkers and grammar checkers and by the time I left the company, my culminating project was leading Bing's native integration into Windows across thousands of people. So I really learned how to build software. Always with a product and engineering focus. So when it came to Textio, I understood product. I understood natural language processing. And I didn't understand that much about starting a business. You know, my co-founder and I, who I will talk about in a minute, were both technical co-founders. Okay, so everything to do with sales and marketing and business operations and fundraising was all really, really new to me. I started writing a lot when I decided to leave big companies. Didn't know what I wanted to do. Didn't know I wanted to start a company of my own. But a bunch of these got some press. I started blogging quite a bit. And I started writing a lot about statistical measurement of bias. So I did a study when I was at Amazon. I don't know if I was a very good employee at Amazon because I mostly sat in meetings logging how many times men and women interrupted each other and then I published it in Slate. I don't know if they were that happy. I published a piece right as we were getting started that in Fortune on bias in performance reviews and technology that was really fortuitous because it went hyper viral and it ended up formative in Textio's history. I blogged, I had little comic strips of me and my daughters that I drew on the blog, that blog is still there but now most of my blogging is at Textio. But you know I was really writing a lot. So, again, always an engineer, always a writer. When Jensen and I decided to start Textio, we had a really clear vision, okay? And I'll talk a little bit about his background in a bit. From everything we had both done, we had this idea. It had nothing to do with talent, it had nothing to do with hiring, it had nothing to do with bias, still doesn't. But if any time you wrote anything at all, okay, just think about this for a minute, you're writing a pitch to an investor, you're writing a sales email, you're writing a job description, which is probably how you know of us if you know of us. If you knew ahead of time who was going to respond, that would be super powerful, right? If any time you were writing, you knew exactly which aspects of your language were getting one group to engage while another walked away, then you could change your approach, right? You could get a different result before you published it, not after you published it. And so this thing we've come to call augmented writing, we didn't have that language three years ago, really means writing supported by masses and masses of data where, you know, your engine can find the patterns, you know, which words, which formats, which constructions get one group to engage while another walks away. That was really our founding mission. The very first thing we built before we ever had funding was a Kickstarter predictor. And Kickstarter was a fantastic place to prototype our technology because all the projects are public domain and all the outcomes are known. So you can look at the successful projects and the unsuccessful projects and you have a really good data set. And so that on the left is the first Textio UI. Jensen, our CTO, drew that on a napkin when we were in San Francisco. And you can see the first prototype we built looks actually a lot like that. And about eight weeks into the company, we had this prototype working. We got to 97% predictive in minute one of a project as to whether it was going to make money. A little depressing, the quality of your idea has no bearing on whether you make money on Kickstarter. None at all. As a long-time product person, that was actually a little demoralizing. But the fonts you use, how long it is, where you place your video content, how you caption your video content, many of these things are highly predictive of success. So that was really interesting, and it felt like we were on to something really big, which is the way you communicate can sometimes even be more important than what you communicate in getting to a certain outcome. So nine weeks into Textio we raised our seed round with this. This was never gonna be a business, right? It was never going to be like we're ready to go out the door where the go-to-market plan of helping Kickstarter entrepreneurs aren't enough of them to make that a billion dollar business. But it proved that we knew what we were doing. And it worked. And so imagine you're in a room with a bunch of investors and they all, by the way, are familiar with Kickstarter. They all have a favorite campaign. And you're like, so look, it works. And they're like, no, no, go find robot turtles. How does that one work? What would you have said about that? No, no, go find the potato salad guy. What would it have said about that? You have to do this over and over again. But it worked. That was our first office in another coworking space that I will not name here. The Riveter didn't exist. And on the right up there, those are the monitors we bought for our team when we got our seed round of $1.5 million. We made our team work without monitors. We worked without a lot of things. It was a huge day for us. Yes, we bought monitors. Three years later, we just moved into a 25,000 square foot space downtown and we're like, ah! Oh, man! This is big. But that is, you know, what we looked like in our beginning, which I'm sure for a lot of you who are just getting started, it's a lot what you look like, too. So I'm going to walk through quickly five decisions that either I made or we made together that I think have accelerated our growth, and hopefully there's something useful in it for you. The first one may or may not be repeatable, but I started the company with Jensen Harris, who is our CTO. He's also my husband. So you may not be able to find that as a repeatable pattern. So that's our life. Right? Up in the left is our, like, professional head shot, which, by the way, took a long time to get. All of our pictures will look a little like family holiday photos. And those are our three daughters. So we have three daughters who are third grade, second grade, first grade. Yeah, we're not bored. Jensen's background is in all ways a compliment to mine. So while I have been deep in language and statistical modeling and building software forever, Jensen was a musician. He went to music school. But also like me, been coding since he was 3. Made his way through college building shareware, which again, like 20 years ago that was a thing. And really developed an industry-wide reputation around user experience. He invented the first UI for email ever, right, in the form of Outlook. Led the design and implementation of Office ribbon commanding interface and then Windows for the whole world. So where I had this experience, you know, really understanding which how do you use NLP machine learning to find patterns in language. I was really the back end sensibility of the company. He knew how to build a user experience truly for a billion people. We didn't have a billion people. We didn't have a million people. We still don't have a billion people. But you got to aspire there. You got to build it so it's usable by people who are not linguists not engineers not data scientists The fact that we've done this together wouldn't work for every family, but for us it is an incredible foundation Because there's no one I trust more right? So if he picks something up, I know it's good and If he if it's not he's gonna tell me and vice versa and we have very different strengths So that's been a decision by the way didn't make it easier to raise money the first time around. There's certainly some people who didn't want to invest in us because we had, you know, the family relationship that we have. Didn't make a difference in the A or the B. So just remember that. If you get over the hurdle, people look at what you can do together and you have investors kind of in your camp. So whether you're co-founding with your spouse or not, I really like what Kristen said in the last panel, co-founding is an amazing choice. It's solo founding. I look at what Amy Nelson is doing here with three babies under four and she's a solo founder and like hats off to you, that is hard. Co-founder gives you someone to rely on and even if they're not your spouse, they're a little bit like your spouse. And you really need to have that trust. So that's kind of the first decision that really, I think, was how we got started that really accelerated us. Okay. The second important decision was the decision to start with job posts. So as I mentioned, we got started. We built a Kickstarter predictor. job posts. So as I mentioned, we got started, we built a Kickstarter predictor, nothing to do with talent or bias. But remember, I was publishing quite a bit about really HR documents and documents about people and bias. We knew and still know that in six, seven years from now when we IPO, we want you writing everything with Textio. We want you writing every single thing at work with Textio. It is a bold ambition. We are gonna take down Microsoft Word and Google Docs. And we can do it, because we've had the opportunity to run those products. You gotta start small as a startup. If you're making something that's really, really predictive, right, that actually when you type in a word processor, Kat talked about Textio's analyzing job posts. It's actually more for writing job posts. You need to give guidance that specifically works for the kind of writing that is at hand. So we realized early we had a lot of opportunity, because I had a lot of relationships and talent in HR because of work I was publishing, to do something really good for that audience. They had a problem. They're spending a lot of time and money recruiting and making recruiting content. They're not happy with how it performs, both from a time-to-hire perspective and certainly a diversity and inclusion perspective. They had data about the problem, so they have masses of job posts, and they keep track of how those job posts actually do with real people. And we had a technology. And so the decision to start with job posts and they keep track of how those job posts actually do with real people. We had a technology and so the decision to start with job posts was really essential. So focusing that broad vision in on a place where we could deliver value for companies. Okay so you could actually prove that the platform works. We had unique relationships to get us started. So if we had started out in sales and marketing, which by the way, every investor that we first talked to asked us why we weren't starting there, because there's a lot of money in sales and marketing, we would have been choked out, right? As the head of an HR tech product, I get to go meet with CEOs of Fortune 100 companies because they care about that problem. And it's a very underserved population technologically. If we had built something in sales and marketing to start, I would have been just another sales enablement CEO. So find the place that is uniquely you that you can win. We started here because we thought we could win. Deliver value and at the same time it's had this stealth benefit which is by the way in all of our companies so you think about a company like Apple or Cisco or Johnson & Johnson because we're mostly an enterprise product everybody in that company is using textio because every job function hires and so when we're ready with products for those other domains they know us in fact one of our challenges is people try to give us data for other domains ahead of our desire to be in those domains. Because remember, you're a startup. We're still only 65 people, right? You've got to focus. You've got to do something you can do uniquely well and win. So for us, this was a really good place to begin. The series B we raised last year is the recognition that the platform works and we're ready to start attaching it to other kinds of writing. And then, of course, there's the wonderful benefit that actually you can solve some really significant bias problems for companies too, which is really important to us. As Kat mentioned, our company's half women, our exec team's half women, our board is more than half women. We live this. Let's get through. The third really big decision we made is around rebranding. So in 2000... Oops, what our logo looked like. And in 2016, we rebranded. And it really is a very stark contrast before and after. The one on the right looks like an enterprise product. It wasn't just about the look and feel, though. It's also how we talked about the product. So our director of brand experience, when he arrived at the company, observed that our team when we were selling the product was talking too much about how easy it was to use. And it is easy to use, right? That's Jensen's contribution in history. But no one buys something because it's easy to use. No one gives you a quarter million dollars for something because it's easy to use. Like a skateboard. Skateboard is a bad example. Not easy to use. These shoes are easy to use. You buy it because of the value it provides to you. So he really made the observation that we were pitching the company and the product wrong. We were pitching about ease of use, which is a strength of ours. But actually we should pitch the fact that when companies use the product, they fill their jobs two weeks faster, or they get 23% more women into the pipeline for engineering and technology roles. That's why people buy the product. And so all of the rebranding and the way we talk about the product have contributed to an acceleration for us because people read it differently. You buy it when you sell the value. That was an important decision. The other thing I learned as somebody with a product background is that the product isn't only what you build. It's also how you package and sell it. So when we started out, very first thing we did was we had an invite only beta. We ran that for 12 weeks. Once we got five months into the company, we built this beta for job descriptions. We had early prospective customers who were sharing data with us. We figured that out. The beta went well. So, we decided to commercialize. We didn't know anything about how to commercialize. So we did what a SaaS company might do is we're like, here, go on our website, you can buy a seat of Textio for $59 a month or something for yourself, which is really cheap for the value. People loved it, because it was really cheap. And they went and they bought the product. And that was seemed really exciting. Until we tried to get back into those bigger mid market or enterprise sales where they're like, well, we could just buy like three or four seats and we're good. Our team can share them. That's not good for building a scalable business. So, we shifted the model. And today, the way we sell the product is with a flat fee according to the number of jobs you have open at the time you subscribe. So if you have 1,000 jobs open, you pay a flat fee for 12 or 24 months, and you add as many people as you want. In fact, you should add everybody because the product will work better for you. As a machine learning company, that's super important to us because we're learning from more writers in the platform. And of course, in terms of our sustainable revenue, that's more important to us because we shift the value away from the individual writer to the value of the platform. What's it doing for your company? I can't even tell you, again, I had no sales background at all. Our first six people were all technical at the company. I wrote a lot of the original back end of the product, but I was the only one who wanted to talk to people, which is how I ended up being the CEO. And that's certainly how I ended up being the first salesperson. So I ran sales, customer engagement basically for a year before we hired our next person. And you can't imagine my shock the first day we received a paper check in the mail for $35,000 from my first enterprise sale. I was like, what do I even do with a paper check? Like, it was 2015. I didn't even know how to get it into our bank account because it never occurred to me people would pay that way. It was like sitting around the office like a hot potato for a few days. We were all like, oh, my God, someone's going to lose it. What are we going to do? Most people don't pay with paper checks, although that customer on their third year of renewal still pays with paper checks. Luckily, it's no longer my job to take care of the paper check. It's not where I excel. But this was a really important decision for us. Changing the way we licensed the product, you can see what happened in our revenue graph. You can see the before and after. You can see that we were going along and then you can see we went right up. And our customers were happier too because it made sense to them. They got it. They didn't want to have to limit usage. That's not good. You want your whole recruiting and talent and hiring team to do it. So pricing it in a way that made sense to them, and by the way, allows them to not worry about who they're giving access to, really worked for us. So think about when you first are licensing your product, remember that the way you price it and license it is just as big a part of the product itself as the actual thing you're making. Really, really important. We also figured out how to make it a better value proposition for our customers to share more and more of their outcomes data with us the longer they're customers. So they have a lot of incentive to share data already because the product works better for them if they do. Right? So they don't have to just use everybody else's aggregate model. Today, Textio's job engine is about 350 million jobs with outcomes attached. So we're adding about 10 million a month. How do you do that? You do that with your customers. The customers are our deep partners in this. And this was a really important piece here, which is that they provide their data, the platform learns, the guidance in the platform gets better for them as they write, they use it, we all measure together again. It creates this virtuous cycle. And if they're data partners, they pay less to use the platform because they're helping us make it. They're part of our family. That's been a huge advantage for us. Finally, the press has been really kind to us since we started. I think because we got out of the gate early, showing some impact for diversity and inclusion, the press was really excited. I was writing quite a bit, so I had some connections. But one thing we learned over our first couple of years is that not all good coverage is actually good for your business. So this is what the first, some sampling of what like the first year of Textio Press looked like. These are great brands, right? You have the New York Times writing about you, Bloomberg writing about you, Fortune writing about you. They're all writing about Textio, which is awesome, in a really narrow way. They're not telling the story of augmented writing. They're talking about bias. And we care about bias. We collaborated with them on a number of these stories. Some of them are based on blogs that we did. But we realized about a year into the company that if we're going to deliver on the bigger vision, we need to change the narrative. We want these stories, this is important to us. But we don't wanna be pigeonholed as a bias play, that's not what we are. We're writing play. So we worked really, really hard over the following year or two, and Marissa, who's our director of columns, is here today and really led a lot of this work to change the narrative. These are a couple of examples of pieces we've had that have broken pretty big. We started talking about other aspects of hiring language. We started talking about what does it matter, what does it mean if you have grammar errors in your job post? Is it going to change their performance? By the way, it doesn't. I don't know if that's good or bad, but it doesn't. We have piles of data about the public job posts of every company in the world. And Textio knows the patterns that are culturally distinctive in those environments. So I know there's a lot of Amazonians here. But Amazon jobs are, let's see if we can see it, 33 times more likely to contain wickedly. And it's not all wickedly prime But when you see things like, you know maniacal wickedly fast-paced environment show up in job posts It's not an accident if a bunch of people in your company are using the same language. It's your culture So we've started telling bigger stories about writing and culture and that's been really important for us When I got to be on Bloomberg TV last year, I was talking about augmented writing. What it means for the future of digital writing. And yes, we absolutely talked about the fact that when Expedia's jobs are gender neutral, they fill three weeks faster. That's awesome. Right? Not an accident. You reach the whole population. Of course, you find the qualified person more quickly. But people are interested in us now for the bigger story. So we started small, and we've been broadening as we go. And you can see, just in the last six months since we really brought this term big, people are talking about augmented writing as the category. And it's the category we're creating. So this is fantastic. This is what we wanted. So hopefully there's something in here you can learn from. If I were recapping, I only have like a minute left. Pick that co-founder very, very thoughtfully. If they're not your spouse, they're going to feel like your spouse. your spouse, they're going to feel like your spouse. In my case, I'm lucky because he's actually my spouse and he's awesome. Start small. Pick a problem that you can not only make traction on, but you're confident you have unique skills to win. Because you know what? If you don't win early, you don't win. You got to pick a place that you can win. And then be really mindful of the fact that your product is also how you license it, not just what you build. And the stories you tell about yourself change how people see you, what they're willing to pay for you. And aim big. Don't let anybody put you in a kind of a small box. If you start out in a small box because you're trying to make progress, that's a choice you're making. It's not a choice that investors get to make on your behalf. It's not a choice that the ecosystem gets to make on your behalf. So thank you. That was awesome. Thank you. So in this next segment, you're going to see a sliver of some of the things that we do at YC. So at YC, the founders who go through the program do a lot of one-on-one office hours with their group partners. So we're going to have two of our group partners from this batch, Adora Chung and Holly Luft. They're going to do office hours with one of the companies that we picked from the audience. office hours with one of the companies that we picked from the audience. And then we're also going to do something called...we're going to do a mock investor pitch. So another company is going to come up and they're going to pitch Holly as if Holly was, you know, and she is an investor, but she will pitch to Holly and then we will give her feedback on the pitch and Adora will re-pitch it to show how she might pitch it if she was the founder. So welcome Holly and Adora on stage, and then we'll get started with on stage office hours. Hey, everyone. How's it going? All right. So this is... I'm Adora, and this is Holly. She was the former founder of Kabam, which exited for over a billion dollars. So we're gonna bring Earshot on stage. All right, come on up. So go ahead and sit down. All right. So, all right, we'll just, we're going to try to mock this office hours here. All right, so can you just introduce yourself to everyone and what are you working on now? Sure. Hi. Can you guys hear me? Yeah. There we go. Better? Yeah. Cool. I'm Amy Satin-Spinelli. I'm co-founder and CEO of Earshot. We develop technology that uses voice analysis and machine learning to provide people with feedback about their communications. So we have technology that can listen to a dialogue and provide some data analytics about how effectively somebody is engaging their audience in a conversation, such as the patterns of speech, how much you are talking versus the person that you're talking to, and an analysis of the questions that you ask. So what are the, what's the main application for this? So the reason that we developed this technology was for teachers in an educational environment. And we developed Earshot for a feedback mechanism because teachers are basically isolated in their classroom. They don't actually get feedback on how effectively they're teaching. So I'm a teacher. How would I use this? So you'd turn on your earshot app that's on your smartphone, you'd record yourself teaching, and then after class, you'd get some data analytics on your phone about certain key performance indicators that are tied to effective teaching and engaging students in skills like critical thinking and communications. Like what kind of, sorry, I'm curious, what kind of KPIs, like what are those stats? Yeah, so these are based on research in the education field that shows, for example, if you're a teacher, after you ask a question, you actually want to wait three to five seconds before you elicit an answer from students. Most of us are uncomfortable with silence, and we want to fill those gaps, but actually if you leave more time, it allows for deeper thinking and broader participation. So a wider range of students will participate. And if you want to focus on critical thinking skills, you're giving time for thinking. So have you put this in the classroom? What has been the feedback from teachers? And yeah, what have you found out so far? Yeah, so we have a beta version of our software and we're pilot testing it in some schools and districts. And what we're finding is that there's really a lot of enthusiasm for this type of data. It's really needed. It's used by schools who do teacher coaching or when teachers go through colleges of education to perform better. These are kind of metrics that are collected manually by people, and they take a lot of time. So automating that process is very valuable. However, the business problem that I was hoping to kind of raise with you during this office hours is I think my offering is not broad enough to go to a school directly I think I'm solving a very niche problem we've made a very deliberate decision to go very deep in the analysis of questions for example and that's not a broad enough offering to sell into a school or district usually they buy like a professional learning system and so we're considering pivoting our business to a B2B kind of backend licensing of technology. So I might've missed this, but how many teachers, how many classrooms are you in right now? About a hundred. A hundred of them. And right now, once you've gotten to the district level, are any of them concentrated in a particular school or are they just spread out? We have two school districts who are licensing our technology. So among those districts, they have a handful of schools, say eight schools a piece, who are using it. And then we have a handful of other schools as well as individual teachers using it. And are they currently paying for this? Some of them are, yes. So what about at the district level, what kind of feedback are they giving you? Because that's where you want to pivot to, right? So I think what we want to pivot to is actually not the district. I think my hypothesis right now is that I need to license my technology to others that are already selling into school districts and being a technology behind their offering. So have you, though, talked to, I mean, but what's the feedback been directly from the school district? Have they said it's narrow? Like what's causing you to think like I got to move out of this? I think we are not seeing the uptick in usage that we'd like to see because teachers have to do a lot of things in their job. And they have to get these clock hours for their professional learning. And so what districts tend to buy are like a complete system that has a lot of content and resources and we don't really fit into that model. So we would be a great add-on to a model like that. If you're a publisher and you're providing resources for teachers to learn to be better teachers, providing data and analytics along with that content might make sense. I see. So then your new customer might not be school teachers, providing data and analytics along with that content might make sense. I see, so then your new customer might not be school districts, they're actually publishers. And then you might have a question of like, how are they even gonna find you once you get, like that's a whole suite of content there, right? So how are they gonna even turn on your voice app? Right, well my question is really around like, how do I revise my model to a B2B licensing type model? There's just a lot of questions in there for me. Like, when I think about an end user, I understand that experience. But when I think about if my customer is another business, that to me is a completely different way of thinking about my business. Like, what's the value to that business? What's the value proposition? How do I price it? How do I license it all those kinds of questions um well just just so we don't just go back a little bit i just want to push on it sounds like what you've created is like an automated coaching automated coach for teachers to help them be more effective um and so i just want to make sure before you pivot that actually to make sure you don't actually have something big here. Because it feels like something huge here. If you can get test scores, you can increase the test scores of students in a classroom by one or even just one standard EVHE and that would be huge for schools. And schools should theoretically pay for this, right? Right. So you're in 100 classrooms already, you said. Right. That is actually a lot. Have you gone to, have you sat in one of those classrooms just for, you know, for a week or even a month to see the interaction and how the teachers are actually using it? And where are the points, like what is the point in which the teacher and the user flow is, like, just falling off and where you think that, you know, they won't pay for it? So, that's a really good question. I have certainly not sat in a classroom with a teacher for a month. I've done it ad hoc here and there, but haven't really invested that kind of time, and I think that's a really good idea. I think that what tends to happen is part of it I think is I think we're oh no okay so I think that what happens is, there's just, this doesn't really want to, okay, thanks. I think what happens is teachers just get busy and they kind of forget to turn it on and they don't necessarily have the pressure of being motivated to use it. I think it's actually a pretty deep philosophical question that we could all ask ourselves. Like, I want to be a better speaker or I want to be in better shape, but am I doing the things every day that I could be doing for that or I just get busy in the other things that I have to do? And so I have to cram all this content into my students because they have standardized tests coming up and I don't have time to think about how I'm communicating with the students. The pressure that I'm having is about the test scores, for example. Okay, so the problem with the teachers is they have, as you've identified, they have just too many other things to do. And so adding one more thing into their workflow is a mess. Okay, so one, just to clarify, all they're doing to collect the data is turning on something, right, to collect speech. And two is, were you pushing reports to them? Or it sounded like you were trying to get in, you were getting in the way in the sense that during a class, you were trying to tell them something in the middle of it to help them do something better? Or was it at the end of the day, it'd be like a report card you gave to them so they could use for the next day? It's the latter. So they get a report. It'll pop up a little alert on their phone when it's ready, but if they're still teaching, they'll just look at it when they have a prep period or after the end of the school day. There's a little bit of time for processing, so after you record, you don't immediately get your data. There's a little bit of time that lapses. Who in the school is responsible for test scores, like increasing, making the test scores better? Everyone, I think. The teacher, the principal, the superintendent. Who's going to get fired if the test scores are bad? The principal or the superintendent? Who's going to get fired if the test scores are bad? The principal or the superintendent. So is your software actually has it proven to increase scores? I can't say that at this point. It's too early stage. I mean, if you think about it, there is like a whole series of behaviors that we know that this works to better engage students. There's research that shows when students are better engaged, they perform better. But there's kind of all these steps along the way, and it will probably take years for an efficacy study to be able to connect directly use of this technology with performance on a test score. Now, we can say other things that are interim like when teachers use our technology they talk less, they ask better questions, they allow for better wait time. So we're kind of inching our way there to show these are metrics that researchers have proven that are important steps in effective teaching but we haven't quite gotten to like this class use the technology and a year later the students test scores were higher than they were the previous year could you not get to that like do it for a year in one class and do like just two classes one control and one not and be able to get those answers and I should probably add that our funding to date, in part, has come from grants from the National Science Foundation, and we're in the process of applying for another one to do a study like that. Yeah, we're gonna wrap up. But the economic buyer here is clearly the principal, as Holly noted, because they're going, so I would be selling to them and trying, and then having the principal force the teachers to actually use the system, and then doing what she suggested, or what you both suggested, which is doing the compare and contrast, the control study. I think the thing, because you're so early, you should do things that don't scale. In this case, it's actually just being in the schools, making sure that the teacher is actually going through, seeing the reports and reading the reports. But ultimately, it's back to the principal, I think. I think on your second, or your first question about the B2B model, I would, it seems like you're really passionate about education and helping students improve. So I would focus on that more than, you know, how do I use the voice data tech stuff and do something else? Because then that just becomes what we call a CISP, like a solution in search of a problem. And you'll end up doing something you don't wanna do and not passionate about. So if this other thing doesn't work out, then I would just go all the way back from square one and think like, what do I really wanna do in this world? Instead of forcing the tech onto what you want to do. But I think you actually have something here. It's just doing things that don't scale for a little bit longer. Thank you. So, the next thing we're going to do is bring up Flavor Cloud, who is going to pitch Holly, who is the investor here, and then go from there. Yeah. All right. So I guess we're going to be sharing. Sorry. So I'm going to be an angel investor, and I've done some angel investing in the past. So I've only heard a little bit about what you do. And so we're just kind of going to mock what I would end up doing as an angel investor. So tell me about FlavorCloud. Holly, fabulous to meet you. And I want to tell you all about FlavorCloud. What we do is we make international purchases on any retailer's website as easy as shopping on Amazon. So cheaper, faster, and completely friction-free. So what retailers would do is use our service in their shopping cart, and they can just instantly ship to 220-plus countries around the world. So help me understand, because I've never worked at Amazon or places that serve retailers. shipped to 220 plus countries around the world. So help me understand, because I've never worked at Amazon or places that serve retailers, so if I'm a retailer, like maybe I own like a Shopify store, you guys are, I would go to you to buy my raw materials? No, we do the shipping logistics and customs and duties calculation for retailers so that if you're an end consumer, if you purchased from an international website, one of the difficulties that you have is that the customs and duties are things that you find later on when you actually get the product. And in addition to that, you have to do additional documentation. You didn't expect that. And finally, let's say you actually got the product. And now you're not happy with it and you want to return it as a consumer. You're pretty much left to your own devices. you want to return it as a consumer, you're pretty much left to your own devices. And so what we do for retailers is say that, you know, you figure out your marketing strategy to get to, you know, these all shipped to all these different countries. And what we'll do is the underlying plumbing to make that happen. So it seems like you're making shipping. Oh, there's another one. So it seems like you're making shipping up. There's another one So I own an online store and I want to ship it to somebody in Wisconsin I would use you guys that's right. So no not the Wisconsin. This is international shipping, right? So this is cross-border commerce. Okay, so if I want to get to Australia somebody in Australia had bought my shoes that I designed And loved yeah, then so currently ship it to Australia. Somebody in Australia had bought my shoes that I designed and loved. So currently, what would I do now? I would just force the consumer, right? I mean, that's what I would imagine. So the problem today is that most retailers in the last two years have seen that because of Amazon and because of social media like Instagram and Snapchat and all of that, consumers are directly finding these brands and they're like, okay, I want to go buy this, right? And then the retailer says, I'm not equipped to ship to you because you're located in China or you're located in Sweden or wherever it is, right? And it used to be that it was 10% of a retailer's business was international. In just the last three years, what has happened is that it has become a one in three e-commerce purchases are cross-border, right? So if you don't do that, you miss out on 40 to 60 percent of the international traffic that comes to your website. In the U.S., it's about 40 percent. If you go to like China or EU, it's well over 60 percent of the traffic that's international. So currently, like how many dollars does that translate to? That's a trillion dollar business by 2020 serving a billion consumers worldwide. Okay so how I mean right now then I feel like it's DHL that I get international packages from or eventually USPS and yes certainly I could get it in three to five days if using DHL and then like 21 days is like the slow boat Express like how are you guys set up to be able to compete with those yeah great question pay like 25 bucks as the end consumer right so great question so what we talked about was the consumer experience of you know how hard it is to do international but what we do is we're a b2b SAS platform right we have a suite of services that you can plug in. There's APIs and plugins for Shopify and merchants, right? So what we do for these guys is three things. One, we integrate with 100 plus carriers around the world. So that's our logistics platform. We have an algorithm that goes across that network of carriers and says, what is the cheapest, fastest, most efficient way to move this product from point A to point B, which is across country borders. And it takes historical performance for that route and also specific to the product to come up with the recommendation. Just right off the bat, because we have these contracts with these carriers and it's a volume-based play across a whole suite of retailers, you're looking at like 80-plus percent savings on shipping. So imagine if you go as a customer today on this website and you have a shipping cost of $60. If you go with us, you have $10 shipping. And you're like, OK, that increases your conversion rate right off the bat. The second thing that we do for retailers is we have a customs engine. So let's say you have thousands of SKUs or even millions of SKUs if you're an enterprise retailer. The real nightmare with international is that you have to classify every single product and come up with this weird code. And that defines what the duties are. And the paperwork is a massive pain in the ass. And so what happens is you have to, as a retailer, have a logistics team that understands the inherent details. And that's a huge cost that most retailers don't understand. So how far along are you? How are you set up? So we actually started with a vertically integrated marketplace in 2014. What does that mean by vertically integrated? That means we enabled through our marketplace small and medium sized businesses sell to consumers worldwide. I started that because as an end consumer I had problems purchasing from these international websites. So we created that and initially it was three markets US, UK, India and then we started experimenting with this and we figured out with 300 plus brands that we scaled to 100 plus countries worldwide. And we found that this anywhere to anywhere logistics infrastructure that we had built became the one that they were most interested in. And we started getting requests for brands that didn't want to be in the marketplace but still wanted to use our technology. So then what we did was we took the back end and said, we're going to create this SaaS infrastructure and make it such that, you know, you can simply plug and play. So you don't need to worry about any of these other aspects of international. So you have about 300 brands on your site using your software? That is through our own marketplace. It's on top of our infrastructure. And last year we made the pivot to the SaaS platform. That was in the summer and then before the holidays we started onboarding customers through our Shopify plugin and we have a dozen customers from that. Two quick questions like how much is like how much shipping volume have you done through your platform? So we did about a hundred K GMV through our shipping platform for the external customers. 6% commission. So basically on order value. So that's been our revenue outside of the marketplace. And we have a pipeline of customers. It's been really great, the feedback that we've gotten so we're looking at 10x in the next four months okay and sorry I lied it's actually three questions total many competitors yes and so you think you guys are the ones that are gonna yeah so the competitors this is kind of a greenfield space because cross-border commerce has grown in the last two years and we've seen the trends grown in the last two years, and we've seen the trends happen in the last two years. The biggest competition is a company called Pitney Bowes. They have a solution called Waterfree. It's a $2.5 billion dinosaur company, but it's also dinosaur technology. It is geared towards, it's something that customers hate, and it's geared towards a market-by-market kind of implementation, which is very prohibitive for the smaller companies. And your other question was about? Oh, yeah, go ahead. So basically what makes us better in this sense and why we are best equipped is I actually spent 10 years in supply chain logistics working with with carriers, UPS, DHL, all the guys that you mentioned. I built customs integration solutions, but I also built route optimization solutions, but more so from the other side of it. So I inherently understand the problems. And then with my co-founder at Microsoft, I built enterprise SaaS solutions. KATE LEAHY- And sorry, very last question, which I usually ask, is how much are you looking to raise and at what valuation? So we've raised $1.2 million in two rounds, seed rounds so far. My second round is halfway through. And I'm raising another million for the next nine months. And that's what we will do. It's $10 million right now valuation cap pretty I'll get back to you thank you can you send me the deck yes oh yeah very nice meeting you thank you I'm gonna switch up place I'm Ruth no how are you I'm Hollyna. How are you? I'm Holly. CU founder of Clever Cloud. Cloud, sorry. Oh, Flavor Cloud. Tell me a little bit about Flavor Cloud. Flavor Cloud is Stripe for international shipping. So online merchants in under five minutes, they just plug it into their online checkout flow, and voila, they can do international shipping and deal with customs and everything. So does that mean you handle the payments and, yeah, just payments too? No, we don't do the payments. So how it works is the merchant will send us through our API the customer's address, and then we automatically real-time determine the best route and the best price to ship it to them. So how big of a problem is this right now? So right now, well one, if you want to do international shipping as a US merchant typically what you do is you hire really expensive consultants who spend weeks, if not many months, many, many months charging hourly rates, trying to figure out all the different combinations for first mile, last mile, customs, customs is the worst, for all these types of countries. And even when they finish with that, it's, you know, typically there's still issues, packages still get lost, everything still gets stuck in customs, and so it's just one big hassle. And that's if you can even afford it. So I think the problem is anybody in the U.S., any merchant who wants to sell goods to anyone in the world will be using us very soon. That's a pretty big market. So where are you guys? anyone in the world will be using us very soon. That's a pretty big market. So where are you guys? So big I can't say it. So how far along are you guys? So we launched in 2014, and the reason why we started working on this is because we launched as a marketplace for all sorts of brands and retailers who were selling through us. And when we realized, while they were selling goods through us, which was great and it was going well, their major problem was international shipping. And so we decided we would solve that problem for them. And then as a result, we just decided to work on that problem itself because it was big enough. So I'm going to ask the elephant in the room, like what about Amazon? Why couldn't they set this up? Because you know what? They have shipping locations all around the world. They're just going to Australia too. Oh, OK. So I mean, Amazon's a great way to distribute your product. But I think every merchant, a lot of merchants actually don't work through Amazon. But I think every brand for sure wants to have their own site. Actually for Amazon, it doesn't actually cater to all international customers. And so in fact, if they use us, we have a bigger distribution than them. Really? Yeah, because we cater to everybody in the world. That's a good point. Even if you're in Antarctica. Have you shipped to Antarctica? So what other competitors are there outside of Amazon? I can see retailers may not want to go over here, but there's got to be somebody else that's cracking this. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so there are a few other startups that are taking a crack at it, but what we do well is we aggregate everything. So most of the startups are taking a very fragmented approach, so they can only ship to one country, or they're trying to build up some things. Are you worried that they're going to do what you're going to do, and what makes you guys kind of... What like what makes you guys kind of what competitive advantage do you guys have so I have 10 years of experience in logistics working at UPS and other various places and so what I know very deeply is I know the the the people doing the delivery the company's doing delivery I know how to talk to them and we've developed many algorithms to put this all together. So how much are you looking to raise and at what valuation? I am looking to raise a million dollars and our valuation is $10 million. What are you looking to use with that money? So right now our team is very, very small. And so we need to expand our engineering team. And we're looking for people to help on the operations side. Okay. Well, how about this? Why don't you go ahead and send me the deck? I'll take a look at it. Are there any references that you can give me as well? Yeah. We have customers. We work with over 300 brands already. So you can talk to them. What do you think, how interested are you in this? Well, so I'll be honest, I've never invested on a shipping logistics type company, so I don't really have as much of a background on it, but what's very interesting is this is like could be a very big business when I could get a piece of that. So usually I'm looking for something that can give me greater than 10X returns. My check sizes usually range from 100K to 250K. So I'll want a certain percentage of the company as a result of that. And I want to be able to keep pro rata rights as I go further. Okay. So definitely up for discussion. Our round is half filled and so we expect to close in about two weeks. So I'll send you the deck and hopefully we can chat further very soon. All right, thank you very much. I'm taking that check. So I don't know what this part is. So yeah, I think my biggest point of feedback is probably just shortening the explanations of what you do. I can see you have a huge, huge vision for this, which is great. But I think just being a little bit more succinct, like your one liner. I forgot what it was. You said Stripe for logistics. And I'm lucky enough to know what Stripe is. But even if it didn't have to like... Sometimes A for B doesn't totally work. Oh, that was me. Oh, that was you. sometimes a for B doesn't totally work I should have asked you I said I said stripe for international shipping and I assumed you're a tech investor thank you so it did take me it did take me that's one of the things I have a problem with in the sense that I've said depending depending on whether they know it, I said Flexport for B2C e-commerce, but that only works with some folks. And I hate to say Uber for international shipping. You could just say you're an API. The Stripe analogy there is an easy, like, it takes five minutes to put in your checkout flow, easy, and you're doing a ton of work in the back, but no one else sees it. Yeah. Yeah. I also, I was a little tripped up on like, I kind of knew you were selling to retailers, but for me, I just personally couldn't figure out what it was. That's why I spent a ton of time just like, okay, what is this thing? And that's mainly where just more the bulk of it and then once i could figure out the thing obviously had a ton of questions afterwards too um yeah and this is a reminder for everyone um actually you you you asked the question which i was hoping you wouldn't ask the question um but a lot of people actually go to meetings with to investors and don't ask for money. Like you just end with it without asking. And even if it's awkward, just ask it with confidence. And I mean, the worst they'll say no is but you'll take all these meetings anyway. And a lot of people will say no. So don't worry about that part. And I will say this a lot of times what, and I didn't probably mock it too well, is usually the first question I ask for is like, how can I help? Is usually what I ask that person. And then so it's true, the entrepreneur has to guide it to I'm asking for money. This is what I'm looking for. And I think what Adora did, what on the founder side, definitely ask what the investor is interested in this might not even be their domain you might not even want them it might be like a bad investor what is their check size what are their expectations how fast can they move do they need to talk to somebody else but overall you do really well she's raising money is are there any investors in this audience yeah that sounds really cool there we go two two. Are there any investors in this audience? Yeah, that sounds really cool. Oh, there we go. Two, three over there. Okay. All right. That's awesome. Cool. All right. That's pretty cool. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you so much. So Dora and Holly can stay up here because it's now time for the YC partner panel. Hi, everyone. I'm Sharon Pope. I work at YC. I run marketing programs. And I want to just remind you that you can submit questions. So go to slido.com, S-L-I-D-O.com. If you don't have a question you particularly want to ask, you can upvote someone else's. And I'm taking the questions from you. So please, if you haven't yet, go ahead and submit. And I will just stand. Great. No, I like standing. Are we okay with me standing? Good, okay. And the Slido event code is FFC. Oh, and the Slido event code is FFC. Thank you, Amy. Slido.com, event code FFC. All right, so starting off, this was one of the more popular questions that's come through so far. For female founders who have families, are there remote options for YC, or what options are available for participating in YC if you don't live in Silicon Valley? Oh, yeah. So recently we put out something called the YC Family User Manual. Actually, Amy and Sharon worked really closely on that. And so it's essentially, we give it to all our founders when they join the batch, and it's tips and advice for people who have families on how to balance that, resources they can use. And so what we've seen a lot of both moms and dads come through YC, and they've all, you know, sort of made it work in different ways. And so we've seen folks who have, there have been cases where they brought the whole family, there have been cases where they've kind of commuted back and forth, is there anything you can think of? So the short answer is it is not a remote program and part of it is the benefit of building that trust, building that interaction, seeing that, feeling that live. I just think it's honestly, the word's strong, but a bit of a lost opportunity. I was going to say waste if you don't come there. So we actually have an international founder in our group. She just had a baby, is six months old, and she is doing a company in Mexico. And we have a ton of international founders that actually fly back and forth mainly because the business is over there and then they come over for the dinners and the group office hours because it's just so much important for her business to kind of move forward so we have a lot of support stuff like the user family manual that comes. I've definitely seen there's another group in my batch right now. He brought his three-month-old son and three-year-old. I'm like, here are all the parks you could go to. Here are all the other things you could go to, particularly for women. There's a lot of support also as well for nursing moms. There's also a really good blog post by a female founder YCU who talked about making it work particularly while she was nursing. So it's just it just is a lost opportunity if you're just not there. I will say that. We'll make sure to tweet that article out so people can after after the conference. We'll share it out so everyone can take a look. So what I'll have to find it. I can't remember who it is. Yeah, she was going between L.A. and, yeah. We'll share it out so everyone can take a look. So another question. What industries or technologies does YC think are extremely promising right now? Oh, gosh. You know what I'm going to say. Do you want to start? So one of the things I think that is exciting about YC is that we get a lot of applications every six months and we get to see sort of, it's like seeing into a crystal ball. So ideas from some of the smartest, most creative people around the world come to us. And so I think some of the best ideas that we've ever funded and some of the best ideas out there aren't even things that we would necessarily think of. It's just what you're all working on that we get to get insight into. That said, there are trends. There's a really great blog post that one of our partners put out, if you look up startup zeitgeist, and it shows eight years of data from YC applications. So it shows sort of the trends that we've seen. Like in 2011, we saw a ton of Bitcoin applications. About two years ago, everyone was building chatbots or things on top of Slack. And so I think that's one of the most exciting parts of what we do. It's not calling what's going to be the next big thing, but getting to, I guess, see into, you know, a little bit into the future of what might be. Sure. So in terms of ideas, two that have come to mind, one is retail. And in particular, I think brick and mortar is trying to go online now and online pure plays are trying to figure out brick and mortar and there's like a clash of cultures there and no one has really figured that out. So I think there's a lot to do there in women's retail and all these categories. I think, I mean, obviously, Amazon's a big player on the online retail and they're trying to move offline too. But I think there's a lot of room there for lots of startups to win there. And then the second one is, I actually haven't, I feel like it's a little bit like blockchain, but like voice apps. So every home now has an Alexa or Google Home or one of these things. There have been no great applications. The biggest thing that people use it for is just information retrieval or reminders or stuff like that. But the UX is quite odd and it's not and it's not how we as adults are used to using things. So I think there's a lot of UX stuff to do there and figure out what those apps will look like. But yeah, I think everyone thinks that blockchain voice is the future, but no one has figured out great applications for it, and so I'm always curious when people are working on that what this could be. The other thing is we've talked a bit about how we have applications from all sorts of technologies. And we actually put out what we call requests for startups, which talk about some of the things that maybe we'd love to see applications from. But one thing to bear in mind is just because what you're working on isn't one of those, that doesn't mean that we're not looking for it. You know, we want you to tell us what we should be interested in. So don't kind of self-select yourself out because it's not one of the things that we mention. It's something that we hear people saying, well, YC isn't looking for companies like mine. And we totally are, because we're just looking for great companies. So related question, a lot of people are asking about what qualities of the companies and founders you find most attractive, and also the red flags in an application. I feel like we addressed the companies question, but Kirstie, you've seen a thousand companies go through. What is it about founders in terms of what you look for, but also red flags? I think because we're looking at so many of these companies at such an early stage, we're really, really focusing in on the founders themselves. And so we want to see people who are determined, who aren't going to give up the minute that things get a little bit tough, particularly where there are teams of co-founders. We want to be able to see that there is some existing relationship there and it's not just somebody that you met in a coffee shop two weeks ago and brainstormed for two hours and it's all going to be amazing. As you've heard from pretty much everybody today, the co-founder relationship is so incredibly important because it's something that will get you through the lows and the highs and they will understand what you're going through, you will understand what they're going through. And one of the number one reasons that we see startups failing is actually that the founder relationship breaks down. So a lot of the things that we're looking for in the applications are around do we think the founding team is going to be that that really amazing team that can that can make this work a one tell we have in that way is we look at the equity split so we like to see teams that have as close to equal equity as possible between the co-founders and and that's because you know even if someone came up with the idea and was working on it six months or so before, sometimes we'll see, I came up with the idea, so I have 80% and my co-founder has 20%. But the reality is a vast majority of your company's life is in the future. It takes, I think, an average of 10 years now to IPO or exit. So you want the co-founders to be on as equal footing as possible. If I could sum it up in one word, like founders that are just formidable. Like I'm like, okay, they're just gonna do it regardless, regardless of what happens here in this room, in the interviewing room. And I think that that's one of the things that we find and we love to find. I will touch a note on two things, one around the technical co-founders. So, and having teams. We do love teams, but we've accepted solo founders as well. We've accepted non-technical founders as well. But the reason why we anchor against those is it's only three months that YC is happening. And if you don't have somebody that can actually build and do something, then you're losing time on learning. And it's really, really difficult. And finally, I was talking to actually Avni, I'll pick on you. We were like, when you're in a particular space, particularly if it's very crowded, I'm very interested in like, what types of insights do you have? Like I was talking to Avni about her insights. I was like, wow, that totally makes sense. the village on child care and that I think is just something if you're thinking about too I have another question for you adore as well all right so the next question so we've talked about knowing your numbers and how it's so important but maybe it's even more important for female founders so adore when you're considering an investment or considering an applicant to YC what metrics are you most focused on what do you think are the most important ones that they're tracking and that they know rock solid? Well, if they haven't built anything yet, there's, I guess, nothing to really look at except for just understanding what the market opportunity is. Two is they're starting to build. One of the things that we tell every founder is you should, instead of growing really, really, really fast, the first thing you should do is build a product that people really, really love. And so that can be defined as, you know, so then I would say the question is, what are the metrics that define what happy engaged users are, happy engaged users getting continuous value out of the product? And so it's different for every single company, but usually you can get like three to four key metrics that metrics that give you a 360 overview of what that means. So it could be weekly active users, NPS, retention is a huge one, you should always be looking at retention, meaning 100 people came this month, how many stayed the next month, and so on and so forth. So that's a quantitative way to look at it, so we would always probably ask for those kind of metrics. And then the more qualitative is like when you're talking to people, you can kind of get a feel of how good your product is already or how much they value it. So for example, if you ask them, oh, what did you think? And they're like, oh, that's pretty cool. That doesn't feel like they're happy and engaged, but if they're like, oh my God, Holly, how can I get an invite link so I can send it to 20 of my friends now? There's a huge difference there, and so that's more of a qualitative thing that you can get out of that. Got it, and I think to Avni's point earlier, she was saying you have seven weeks until the application deadline, you have seven weeks until the application deadline, so start and start tracking and make some progress. Do you think that there's, is there a period of time you look at in terms of the metrics, or is it more flexible? It's this entire period, when you start it building and start it using, and just you want to see some growth in terms of, you know, your MPS is getting better, your weekly active users are getting better. And I mean, the metrics tell you the what, but you need to deep dive and know the why so that you can continue doing the things that keep working. So maybe unsurprisingly, a question maybe Kat will answer. This room wants to know if YC will ever have a Seattle office or accelerator. I think for now, and I travel a lot internationally all around the U.S., and I think at this point in history, it still helps most companies to spend three months in the Bay Area. There is just, it's so easy to raise money there. There's a huge, I mean, it's relatively, relatively. I mean, you know, it's hard, but it's much easier than pretty much anywhere else in the world. And then there is just, you know, a huge network of founders. And so spending three months building that network of investors and other founders who can help you as you grow, I think makes sense. And then you can come back and bring that network and all that knowledge with you back here or back, you know, wherever your users are. The one thing I, my sort of hope is the way that we get, you know, organically get YCs all over the world is that we fund a really incredible company. You know, they grow, Poppy, I'm looking at you, where's Shift Labs? They grow, they become billion dollar companies and their founders start reinvesting in the ecosystem so that, you know, they start investing in the founders here. And so that's, I think, the most, my dream for YC long term is that it's the alumni in each of these regions that sort of grow the whole community. I think that's great. So question, and obviously we've seen some great YC alums on stage today, how does YC interact with founders after YC? So it's a fairly common misconception that people think that YC ends after the three-month program. And actually that's not true at all, because we are still investors in your company. And we're here to help. We want to help the founders that have been through the batch already. And so we're here as a resource. We're always available to answer questions whenever founders come back to us. And so some examples of things that we help with after the batch are, you know, maybe the founders have raised a million dollars out of Demo Day, and they're now a year past that, and they're thinking about starting to raise their Series A. And we can come and we'll help them pull together a pitch deck we'll help them with their practice pitches we you know we'll we'll introduce them to people who could be helpful and then continuing on we also now have our later stage program where we work with companies who maybe have 50 employees or 100 employees and how do we how how do those companies scale and how can they you know what sort of problems are they coming across that we can help with and so the idea is is that we are always a resource for you know everybody who's been through YC and so any of our any of our experience if we can be helpful, we want to be helpful to you. And on the back end, we've built a lot of software. So we have something called Bookface. It's like Facebook meets LinkedIn meets Quora, where all of our founders sort of every day are sort of talking to each other, asking questions, helping each other out. And I think more often than, you know, founders will come to us occasionally if they have questions, especially around fundraising, but I think more often they're asking their community, the community of founders to help each other out. So that's, I think those touch points happen on a monthly basis, if not more. Yeah, yeah. I'll just chime in and say another misconception is that YC is about the three months. And so, and this doesn't necessarily, you don't have to take them up on it, but office hours are open for any partner afterwards. And so for me, two years out of YC, I actually take way more value out of that than even during the period when it was very intense and there's a lot of stuff and you're mostly working with your group partners. There are people that have experience across the board. There are former venture partners. There are former founders, obviously. They're from everything across the board. And so for me, when I talked about mentors, most of my mentors are actually YC partners. And so the ability for me to every month or whatever it is, own reaching out to them and having that has been so invaluable. So for those of you that are kind of evaluating YC as a program, don't ever think about it as just like a three-month thing. It's sort of like a lifelong, you get into this tribe of people and founders that I think is just so invaluable. Thank you, Avani, the founder of Poppy. I loved that. So I think that, and this is obviously something that, actually, I think if Holly and Adora want to take this one. So as a founder, how do you keep the momentum going when the funds are running dry and growth is getting really challenging? Or maybe, I guess, if it would help to put a finer point on it, can you talk through a time where you felt that crunch and how you were able to push through it, whether it was fully dry or just close? Super depressing. So we started our company in 2006, exited in 2017, and 2008 was the worst year ever for all startups everywhere around the world, but particularly in Silicon Valley. A big venture capitalist called Sequoia Capital had sent out a deck, said RIP good times, get to cash flow positive, and there was just no money anywhere. So for us, what we did, so A, it's obviously super, I have a co-founding team of four total, and good news is we got along, which was great. And we were pretty cheap. So we got even cheaper. We cut our burn drastically. And we basically hunkered down, all of us. In some ways, because we were smaller, it felt really good that we were all in the same boat together. For about two to three years, our Christmas party was basically an office party with board games. But nobody really complained too much, so that's pretty good. With a gift exchange, which is great. And I think the other thing that we did that was for us, and I'm not saying it's for everybody, but we did change our business model during that time because we saw basically $3 million contracts just disappear overnight. And we said we just cannot kind of function with that. appear overnight. And we said, we just cannot kind of function with that. And we were just stupid enough to just try to continue to exist during that time until funding came in about a year later. And that's when we just walked down to the pub and had a drink after the money goes in the bank. So by the way, term sheets are signed. That means nothing. You got to wait till money's in the bank. Term sheets are signed, that means nothing. You gotta wait till money's in the bank. I mean, being a founder is a little bit of an irrational choice. So the first three years that we were around, we actually only were able to raise $100,000. And so for the Bay Area, that's not a lot of money. So I mean, the number one rule in a startup before, especially if you don't have product market fit yet, is just to keep your personal burn low. So you got to, you know, yeah, you can't spend money on anything, only on the must needs. So I mean, we couldn't afford board games. I guess you could have borrowed it. There's the library checkout. You could check them out. Just joking. Oh, library. Okay. Might not have been a bad idea, though. But honestly, it's just keeping your personal burn low and just having a good relationship with your co-founder and just being on the same page of where you're going and keep trying. And just like you guys pivoted, we actually, it's funny because we pivoted also into the thing that started growing and got us venture capital during this time when we were just like on credit cards and barely making it. We pivoted into games. Yeah, like that mentality, it's like that mentality of not, like you don't have anything, really makes you think, it makes you be really efficient with what you do and it really makes you think what you can do with very little. And I think that's actually when some of the better ideas come about so even if you raise money you should always keep that in mind and keep that mentality and mindset and always keep your burn low okay so another interesting question especially for this conference are there differences that you've seen in interviews between male founders and female founders in terms of how they present, et cetera? Kirstie, do you want to start? I don't know if I have anything to add on this one. I mean, you're the most recent interviewer. Do you have any new insights? Let's see. So I guess of the women that have come in and the women that we have taken, so I don't know in terms of pitching, but I do realize there's one thing that I've realized not just from this one, but over time, is partly for, I've heard this advice given to men about in order to sound very smart is to speak slower but I feel like that advice doesn't help for women I actually think the ones that just bowled us over with the numbers of like this is this this this and this and we're like wow okay and those were the ones that we ended up taking and I was like okay that that like they just didn't even give in edgewise in some ways it's not like they weren't listening either you definitely have to be open to listening but I'd have to think a little bit on was there a difference in terms or maybe pitching as founders who have pitched investors were there things that you kind of had to coach yourself on that you had to improve upon yeah definitely I know some of the stuff sounds really silly but doing doing those Superman poses, like getting your head in the game, the visualization pieces, practice, practice, practice, practice, practice, practice, and know your numbers. I'll let you talk about that one. Honestly, I think it's like knowing your numbers. I don't know. That's just the number one thing. And I always just knew my numbers and was able to, if you asked me anything, I could tell you in a split second, and I think, I think that's super important. I think confidence, just going in, and even if it's, like I said before, even if it's super awkward feeling, just, just being confident. There are, in the beginning, it was really funny, because when I was asking for money, I'd always, like, smile weirdly, or, like, like, almost crack up up because it was so awkward for me. So I just had to get out of that phase and just because there's always a silence also after you ask and you should just pause. Don't start like some people just start rambling after that because the other person hasn't spoke yet but it's know, just pause and wait for the reaction. So I've been talking to a lot of the international founders, and one French founder, actually a man, a male French founder, you know, came up to me and said, you know, Demo Day is coming up and I have to say I'm really uncomfortable because, you know, American men pitch themselves in such this like overblown, bold way, and we're not taught to speak like that in France. I mean, it's very embarrassing and uncomfortable. And so it's just something that we had to practice so that he could fight past that discomfort, because you have to. A lot of investors are sort of used to seeing these kind of bold, confident pitches. And so that is something that I think international founders, but also I see some women kind of undersell themselves. I was reading hackathon applications a couple of years ago. It was the first time I noticed it would be teams, mixed teams, male, female. And the male on the team would say, hey, we built this world changingchanging, award-winning hack at this last hackathon. We're an incredible team. We're the best on the planet, stuff like that. And his female counterpart, who had built that same hack with him, said, I contributed to this product. And it was really like a stark contrast. And it's something that I saw over and over again. And so it just me whenever I talk to women I'm like don't undersell you know what you're doing or what you're bringing to this team because you're an important piece of it and so that's I think a main thing that I tell women over and over again before they go out and pitch. And don't apologize. I'm practicing that. I'm sorry. I have one more question. I have a couple more questions, but I just wanted to do that. So what would be the advice? So we at YC have obviously seen a lot of companies go from that early stage to the growth stage. So what do you think some of the best advice is for a company as they're getting to that next phase? So maybe they're getting over that next phase? So maybe they're, like, getting over 30 employees, approaching 50 employees. So there's two sides to it. There's one, the product side, in terms of how do you grow your product? And the most important thing is knowing your unit economics. Like, at the one unit level, how much money are you making on each piece or each person that comes in? Because then you could dump a bunch of money in there and it's going to be smart how it's going to be spent. So on your product side, you should definitely know how your unit economics are and they should be positive, just in case anybody does not know. It should be positive. And I know it might be a little different for an advertising-based company, and even B2B looks at ARR, annual recurring revenue, and all that. But for the most part, if you get your unit economics right, then that is something that's important. As you grow, there's something that changes also from product market fit. The organization changes, and I think people don't talk about that as much. But that is incredibly important to be able to enable your product to grow. And from that stage, it's almost like I'm pretty sure that the CEO gets hit first in terms of feeling that kind of like, okay, it's time to scale. Like, I don't even know where the keys to the building are. Like, how do I even get in there? And then it starts hitting the next layer. Perhaps, like, for us, it was the other co-founders, such as myself. I'm like, I don't even know where the files are, the design files, because I hired another designer. And at that point, you start thinking about, well, about managing all of this stuff. You're like, oh, my God, this is big corporate stuff. I'm here to get shit done, right? And what people don't realize is when you get shit done, sometimes you just end up with a lot of shit. Oh, my gosh, this is being recorded, huh? I'm so sorry. Live streamed. Stuff done. Sometimes with stuff. So sorry for everybody out there. We've heard it before. Oh, yeah, no apologies. They've heard it before. Oh, yeah. No apologies. I ain't sorry. I'm not sorry. Buzz. Anyways, the problem with that mindset, especially as you're growing, is you end up with just a lot of crap. And you have people doing the same thing in like three or four different places, and you're just like, what is going on? And so you have to start moving into a mindset of making it happen, like looking at it as a whole organism, particularly those that are leading the company. And then you as founders, which I think is incredibly difficult, special, and probably irrational place to be, is that you have to learn how to scale yourself. And that's something that take a lot of confidence and pride in that you're a founder. And we all know that you're learning on the job. And every day you're failing. Every single day. The learning curve is like 50% is a phenomenal score because it's on a curve. So those are things that you have to kind of learn in terms of how do you start managing through people? How do you start knowing delegation? And how do you yourself recharge and be able to work with other folks? But there's a lot of other pieces on setting up an organization, but that's something that you start thinking about. You're now building an organization and then a company. All right. So Pradmar, if you're first. Just one thing to add. What we see startups that don't work out, one of the things that they always do is they run out of money because what they've done is while they're growing, they've just thrown humans at problems. Like the human Band-Aid solution is not the thing you should do. Meaning, you know, you just hire as many engineers as you can because, you know, you have all these features you want to build and your product roadmap's behind. Or, you know, you don't have enough leads, so you go hire more marketing people. You don't have enough leads, so you go hire more marketing people. You should not do that and just think of other ways to be more efficient and get back, like I said, to that startup mindset of being super efficient. Awesome. Another question, and maybe, Kirstie, you could take this one. How does YC feel about companies that have already raised the money? They're applying and they maybe have – is there an amount that's too much for them to have on their cap table before they apply to YC? So we have companies apply and companies that we accept who have raised millions of dollars in the past. It's a real spectrum. And another misconception is people will say, I'm too early for YC or I'm too late for YC and actually neither of those things are true so you all apply and we'll do our job and figure out whether whether you know you're the right fit and so you know we do have companies that have come to us having already raised money on safes some companies have already raised seed rounds. And we think that the three month batch in particular, it can be really helpful to any companies who are sort of up to series A and sometimes even having raised to series A. So I think it's less about the dollars that you've raised and more about where are you in the process and how can you leverage YC in the three months that you get as part of the program to actually make the company as much of a success as it possibly can. And just the last question, we have a lot of versions of kind of the flip side of that question. So we've talked a little bit about how someone can show progress early, but in terms of early-stage companies, how early can you possibly get into YC? And I think maybe it would help to just give some examples of founders who've gotten in a little bit on the earlier side and what the reasons might have been. So we definitely have companies who are super early. We'll often have people who come in and we agree to fund who haven't even incorporated yet. So they're that early. And it depends on what's the idea and what's going on in terms of the company. But also bear in mind that even companies or founders can come in with an idea that they've been working on for six months or for a year. And during the three months of the batch, they decide to pivot into something entirely different. So they're starting from absolute zero as well. So, you know, it doesn't always just have to be at the point of the application. And any early usage or any early indicators of people really loving what it is that you're building is often enough for us to be able to take that bet on you. I'll just plug that YC has a program called Startup School, startupschool.org. And there'll be another program later this year, which is literally anyone who has an idea can participate in that and watch that content. I think that's it. I guess I'll have the last word. Thank you so much to the YC partners, and thank you to everyone. I'll hand it over to Kim. KIMBERLY GERLACHER- I have a couple thank yous. So I wanted to thank you all for coming today. And I hope you'll stay in touch with us and let us know what you're working on and stay in touch with each other. So a couple of things. I want to thank you to Google for hosting the kickoff dinner last night and to Silicon Valley Bank for hosting the brunch this morning. One piece of feedback we always get from folks that attend is that they don't have enough time to meet the other attendees. So thank you for doing that. I also wanted to let you know that AWS, Amazon Web Services, and Google Cloud are both offering hosting credits to everyone here. So keep an eye out for an email from me. I'll email you all sort of instructions on how to take advantage of those if you need or want them. And then I also wanted to thank the Riveter for hosting us, because this is an incredible space. And I wanted to thank Avni from Poppy because she's one of the major reasons we're here. She was such a big advocate. She's like constantly telling us how many talented women there are in Seattle. So thank you. and there are in Seattle. So thank you. And one last thing is I wanted to, well, two last things. One is we have Phenomenal Women t-shirts for everyone here, so make sure to pick one up on your way out. And they are a nonprofit. You can check them out. They're an incredible organization. And so remember to get those before you head to the reception at Red Hook Brew Lab down the street. And then also my last, last thing is I wanted to thank everyone at YC who made this happen. There's like 10 of us who came out, especially Dom, Dominique Fiennes, who heads up events for YC. So you did an incredible job, and thank you. Yes, Red Hook Brew Lab, we will see you there. Anything else? You guys can use your badges to get inside. Yeah, that's it. Use your badges, was that. Thank you. Thank you.