 You guys are brothers, right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. He's the older one. I'm two years younger. Okay. And what made you want to start Fermat's library? So just for the people that don't know what it is, Fermat is a platform for annotating papers. And so if you want to think about it, you imagine a PDF view in your browser, and then you have annotations on the side that support latex and markdown and so you can add annotations in parts of papers that you think are particularly tough to understand or you think there could you could add more content there but so it's something that we've we've done the the four of us that started for mod we all have a technical background and so after college we kept on reading papers and every once in a while we had this internal journal club where we would read a paper and present it to to the others so um so i remember for instance presenting a few years back presenting the bitcoin paper to to louise and mika which don't have a cs background and so you kind of have to go into for instance for the bitcoin you might have to go into okay paper to Louise and Mika, which don't have a CS background. And so you kind of have to go into, for instance, for the Bitcoin, you might have to go into, OK, what's a hash function? What's a public key encryption? And so we were already doing this. And we knew that you also have this behavior offline in places like universities. And so we wanted to take that experience and bring it online. And we thought there was a lot of content that you end up producing while you're trying to read a paper, which can be the most dense piece of content that a human can read sometimes, right? The language can be incredibly spartan. And sometimes there's a step in some paper that they say, oh, this should be obvious. But then you look at it and it's like, OK, I don't get it. And so we knew that there was a lot of content there that you end up producing while trying to understand a paper. And we wanted to bring that online. FRANCESC CAMPOY FOSTER LUNA ESTEVEZ- Because Luis, you were in physics before. LUIS VILLAMILLE- I studied physics together with Mika and João and Taimo went to MIT. Taimo studied economics and you studied CS. So a lot of the papers are around physics, math, economics, biology, CS. Yeah, because you kind of solved the cold start by just annotating yourself. Exactly. And now it's more about getting the author in there. Exactly. That was kind of the growth we start our first paper was the Bitcoin paper yep and still the most commented right yeah that one is a good number of comments it has been there for the longest and it is it was quoted and or just there are a bunch of news sites that have pointed back to it okay it's like okay if you want to read it and go to the annotated version but we had a we had a few like cool people comment there um uh laurence classic yeah on the bitcoin paper um a bunch of people from the bitcoin community exactly comment in there yeah but the the larger goal with format is to try to move things in the right direction meaning move science towards what people call open science and so that that is encompasses a number of things from open data which means just sharing the data that you've used for publishing whatever research you might be publishing and you want to share that and make that easily accessible to people so that if they want to replicate the results that you got or use it in their own research, they have an easy time doing that. So that's open data. You also have just publishing the code that you used or the algorithms that you've used and making those more easily available to people. There's also open publishing, which means just publishing in papers that are not behind, or in journals that are not behind paywalls. So there's a lot of things that are within open science, all of those. And then there's also, so we want to push things in that direction and also try to build a platform that makes it easier for people to collaborate and and we think that there are a lot of things that could be happening nowadays or where people could be collaborate scientists could be collaborating remotely a lot more yeah than than they are or that's at least uh the way we think and um but it's starting to change where we've had the for the the paper there those um yeah i think we like this is actually a trend we're seeing more and more people collaborating online around papers so for instance there's this famous example around the problem called the erdos discrepancy and um this problem is a famous problem that was posed by paul erdos which is like this famous mathematician 80 years ago and terence stow uh the fields medalist was trying to solve the problem and he he put it on his blog that he was trying a certain approach to to solve the problem and then there was this guy from germany that just wrote a comment there like the size of a tweet and he said that um the the erdos problem had a sudoku And he said that the Erdos problem had a Sudoku-like flavor, and that some of the machinery that they were using to solve the Sudoku problem could be used there. And that was actually the key to correct the problem. And they ended up publishing a solution to the Erdos discrepancy problem, which was probably one of the biggest milestones in number theory in 2016. And that was all thanks to a comment on his blog and to the fact that they were collaborating online around solving that problem, which was also a polymath problem. The polymath project was a project started by these other Fields medalists called Tim Gowers. And it was actually a social experiment to see if it was possible to solve math problems online and collaborating around math problems online. And yeah, and they were able to solve it, thanks to that comment. FRANCESC CAMPOY FLORES- Because you kind of see, you look at GitHub, and then you think of the impact that GitHub has had for open source. Open source, of course, existed much before GitHub, but it has really allowed a lot more people to come in and be able to get into open source and start contributing. And there are a number of other really interesting platforms. You have Wikipedia, just for more general knowledge, or you have Stack Overflow, for just programmers helping each other and we think that there could be something similar to that but for science in general right well because did you listen to the Rogan with Peter Tia parts of it Mika listened to that yeah yeah that was a really good one and he talks about um i don't know if they're talking about the archive in particular around publishing papers but he talks about having full-time staff oh yeah just scrubbing the data looking for interesting information coming out um and again like in the context of stack overflow that's the place where like programmers find specific answers to problems whereas with the archive like good luck yeah good luck finding that stuff yeah and so have you guys thought about addressing like just discoverability in the context of particular fields it's a really tough problem um like for instance paper recommendations it's really hard to because you're just doing one a week right now yeah in addition to the browser extension and and we also have our tool that is used internally at um universities and research groups for people that they're reading papers together and and they add annotations yeah but uh but for now uh we have the weekly journal so we release a paper every week that we select, and we annotate it, or somebody in the community annotates it. And then we have the archive extension that adds a bunch of features on top of archive, like BibTeX extraction, reference extraction, and comments. And eventually, definitely, recommendation and recommendation engine or and making it easier to discover papers that are relevant to you yeah that's something we definitely want to add um onto our archive extension but it's a tough problem it is yeah initially we started uh formats as a as john said as a journal club. And then we saw that people liked the interface, the commenting interface, and liked reading the annotations. So now we are starting to expand and turn Fermats into more of a platform. And that's why we decided to do the Archive Chrome extension. Because Archive, for people that don't know what it is, it's basically a place where papers leave before they go to journals in the form of preprints. So they are like drafts before they go to journals. And what we did is we built a Chrome extension that basically allows people to see all the commenting interface on archive papers. And so you don't have to go to another website. You commenting interface on archive papers and so you don't have to go to another website you're just reading archive papers and you see the comments on the site if you have the Chrome extension installed well and a lot of these papers don't even have comments they don't like best case you're emailing the author exactly yeah yeah they don't have okay so what archive does it's basically they just host papers. Yeah. That's the core functionality of Archive. And so one of the things that we noticed is that especially for areas like machine learning and deep learning, Archive is super important because the new papers are coming out at such a high rate that people don't wait before the papers go to journals, before they start working on top of it and using the stuff that other people discover. So all the papers are published on archive. And so you need a way to distinguish good quality work from bad work if you are reading a paper on archive that hasn't been peer reviewed or something about machine learning and i think that's why arc the librarian extension is so important in fields such as machine learning so does the librarian extension have a rating mechanism as well like how do you distinguish good from bad work right now it's it's only through the comments but we are actually thinking about implementing some some sort of rating system for for papers and we're we're probably gonna also we've been thinking about that for a while now and it's not we're probably gonna run a few surveys to our audience to because you could do it in a number of ways like rating a paper you could do it obviously there's like likes or dislikes or upvotes and downvotes so you could either just have an holistic rating for the whole paper you could also imagine rating it on a number of different aspects of the paper right it could be about okay how big is their data set if they're using some data set or what what do you think about their methods so you could have a more complex rating system. And so we've been thinking about that a lot. And we're just trying to figure out what makes the most sense there. But that's also definitely, like, we would love to add that to archive. Or Chrome extension for archive. Yeah. So how do you think the collaboration plays out then? Because I understand how, you know, say, for instance, you know, you're a physicist, you start commenting on someone else's paper, you start a discussion that creates a new project, right? Do you think you'll go further than there? Like, are we talking about like forking and that kind of stuff? Yeah, that's, I think you could, there's a lot of things that you could do if you, once you have a platform that is more, that has more people in it and that they're doing more stuff in it. And so that's why the way we've been growing Firmat is with a goal far in the future where we are a much broader platform. And so right now, but right now we were focused mostly on solving problems that people have nowadays. And actually, we were largely inspired for our archive extension by the survey that the archive guys did, where they had, I don't know how many people, but they surveyed the people that use archive and then published a paper where they describe the problems that those people reported while using Archive and the things that they most wanted to see, the features that they most wanted to see. And then the Archive folks just said, hey, we're just going to be the platform to build upon. And we're not going to do all of these things that people would like us to do. But here it is. This is what people want to see. If there's anybody else that wants to work on this, here are the results of the survey. And since then, they've actually done a pretty great job of building an API and wanting to become more of a platform. And so there's a lot of ways that we envision that you could have collaboration around science. And so, yeah, like forking a paper or forking some type of research. Or data. Exactly, or data. There's a lot of things that you could do there. It's not something that we're focused on right now. Right now, we're just trying to solve these problems that people have pointed out and create a place where people can just post comments and discuss around a paper. An example of the problems that people mentioned was like, for instance, reference extraction. So if you go to a PDF, you have at the bottom of the paper, you have the references that they used. And most of the times when people want to search the references, they have to copy the text in the PDF, put it on Google, and try to find the link to the paper. And one of the things that we did with our Chrome extension is we allowed that. They just click on a button in the Chrome extension, and then they see a list of references with links to the paper. So that was one of the features that was most requested by the archive users. And our idea was, initially, we wanted really to convince people to install the Chrome extension. And so let's solve the hair on fire problems that they are describing here. And then once we have people using the Chrome extension, and then we can expand into open collaboration around papers, since they are already there. Yeah, so that was the growth effect. MARK MANDELMANN, Do you guys know of anyone working on publishing negative results? This is something I've been fascinated with. And basically the problem is that as an academic, you're not incentivized to publish negative results because you want to publish things that have high impact so you can get a job or a tenure position or just get people to even care about your work right and so they don't publish do you know anyone like working on that and i know researchers that are they're studying that field a lot but unfortunately for some of these things you just um that's that's a very large problem and people are becoming more aware of that and with that you uh like you have negative results. You also have people doing a lot of research into p-value hacking. Yeah. You should explain that. Yeah. So p-value, it's essentially a standard that people use in order to know if the results that you have obtained out of some experiment that you've run are worthy of being published. And so that has worked for the most part. That has worked fine until now. Or I mean, that's arguable. But people are looking into it and thinking, OK, should we do things differently? And should we be much more stricter with what's considered the golden standard to publishing? And we've thought of doing things there with Fermat or like just so that if you're looking at a paper to have an idea, okay, how relevant is this paper? This is more specific for certain areas. Like if you're talking about medicine or biology, where that is really important, like the statistical significance of the results that you're presenting. That's all, right? That's the most important thing. And so we've thought of doing something with Fermat there, either via some API where you could send us the DOI of a paper and we would send you some information regarding the p-value or something, or with the chrome extension where um where you'd see that that information um displayed very prominently saying hey like these this might be there might be some p-value hacking here or this or this is very solid research because there is a very big problem and people are realizing how prevalent it is, especially in things like economics and biology, nutrition. I mean, it came about, I was just talking to a friend who's doing a PhD at Cambridge in bio. That's a big thing. Yeah. And only by attending a conference in the States did he realize that there was someone in Australia working on the exact same problem as him concurrently? And they're failing at the same types of experiments, but because they don't publish them, no one knows the results, no one knows the methods. you know, traveling salesman type problems that people are so excited about quantum for, like trying all these permutations, are happening at a smaller scale, but no one's publishing anything. So like the progress isn't happening. Yeah. And part of it is just the way research is done and you come into it and you're trying to find some correlation usually. Yeah. And you will be trying to find some trend in the data. And you, whether it you know you used you are going to usually have that bias you're trying to find some correlation public when publishing that and and so yeah it you might need to change things dramatically in order to get people to start publishing negative results which which are like could be incredibly useful yeah for other researchers yeah that's yeah but there are a bunch of people um working on that there's there's this researcher at stanford i'm forgetting his name it's john and then i forget his last name but he actually just went on this podcast econ talk and oh really i love econ talk yeah so you should listen to to to that podcast and actually timor has been talking to to that professor i think he's a professor at stanford and he yeah and he is he he's he's analyzed uh more um this subject but more relating to to economics i believe but yeah he's found a lot of the things that we're talking about here they're prevalent also in economics cool uh let's go into the twitter questions so we have a lot of the things that we're talking about here. They're prevalent also in economics. Cool. Let's go into the Twitter questions. So we have a ton of questions. You guys are very popular on Twitter. So congrats on your great following. Let's see. Let's start with something broad. Tanner Goblinstein asks, what are the most interesting papers you've read in the past couple of years that are not widely known? That's interesting. I end up reading all sorts of papers from different areas. How do you get the papers, actually? It's just like a random walk. Really? It's just a random walk. It's funny. the random walk or funny yeah or sometimes you'll think for instance I I a few months ago I got like a Fitbit to track like my sleep and so I I was I wanted to read papers about sleep and and so that just got me into like a random walk around like research around sleep and then i found a bunch of interesting things i ended up annotating a paper about a big study in finland that was done um in regards to the association between sleep and mortality there are a bunch of really interesting things that i learned from there for instance that like if you sleep less than seven hours that's associated with higher mortality but if you sleep more than eight hours, that is also associated with higher mortality. Really? Yeah. So have you changed your life based on that? Yeah. No, I try. Well, not that I was usually more on the end of not sleeping enough. But there's also another thing from that research that apparently sleep quality doesn't matter as much at least for mortality which is kind of counterintuitive but it seems that just sleep quality is very closely related to to the amount of sleep that you're getting okay so like seven hours of like okay sleep versus seven hours of great sleep that's kind of hard to distinguish seriously so you like sleep on an airplane your whole life apparently live as long not yeah yeah apparently maybe your life will be a little bit more miserable but but so so it's hard sometimes to pick uh the favorites but um there is one for instance there's one that is also kind of random but uh so publish a paper published in the 90s about um the simpsons paradox and the hot hand phenomena in basketball so the hot hand phenomena in basketball is right you you you think that okay because they just made they just made a field goal like the next one they have a higher chance of making it and so there's this researcher researcher that in the 90s looked um at a data set from the celtics to to see if for free throws if that if that was true and so and before they they they had asked students at stanford and cornell like 100 students if they thought that okay if they just made uh the first free throw is the for the second one are they higher did they have higher chance of making it or not and there was something like six 68 of the 100 students that were asked that agreed and they thought that that was true and these are like people from stanford and cornell and so then they they looked at this and um and uh so what they found back in the 90s what they found was that actually that seemed not to be the case right that uh from uh your second free throw uh is not you're not more likely to make it if you made the first one but what they found is that you're just more likely to make it on your second one objectively significantly yeah okay and so and so this was done in the 90s with like i don't know how many free throws with maybe like 5 000 they looked at some data from the celtics across the celtics yeah and then i i went and got a data set from kaggle with like six under a thousand free throws and and i re-ran the same um right re-ran the same algorithms that they ran for the study in the 90s and then looked at what the results were. And yeah, and so the pattern is pretty clear that just on their second free throw, they're just much better at it significantly regardless of their first one. And yeah, it doesn't matter if they made their first one or if they missed. Yeah. Yeah. And then that paper kind of then tried to explain why people think that there is a hot hand phenomena. And that is related to the Simpsons paradox, which for people that don't know what the Simpsons paradox is, for people that don't know what the Simpsons paradox is, it's also really kind of changed my worldview a little bit once I learned more about the Simpsons paradox. But it's basically, what it says is that you can get two valid conclusions out of the same data, depending on how you split it. So an example is an example is for instance, that between 2000 and like 2013, the, the average or the median wage for high school dropouts in the U S is dropped. Uh, for high school graduates, it also dropped for, uh, people with an undergrad degree, it dropped and for people with, uh, yeah, a graduate degree or higher, it also dropped for people with an undergrad degree, it dropped. And for people with a graduate degree or higher, it also dropped. So across the board for all of those segments, the median wage dropped. But in aggregate, it went up. And so you look at it, and it's like, OK, what's going on here? And it turns out is that what happened is that a lot more people got a degree so it just they just shifted towards um higher education and but so that's why you get on average uh it going up and then for each one of these segments it goes down and so the simpson's paradox is that depending on how you cut the data yeah you might get um different results but that could be valid. In this case, it's pretty easy to understand that you should be like what's the right way to look at this data. But in some other cases, it's not clear whether or not you should include this variable and cut the data in some different way. And so relating it back, like for this basketball issue, what it was is that if you looked the the results were different whether you you looked on a player by player or if you looked at the aggregate once once you collapse it all into the same table you get different results rather than when you looked at at it player by player and so yeah if you if you collapse it i think i forget exactly the the way it went but if you collapse it might have been that you you indeed saw um you didn't see the hot hand phenomenon but if you looked at it player by player you saw it and so they're arguing that that's why people add the idea that's why you get like 68 students out of 100 saying that they believe in the hot hand phenomenon yeah yeah yeah and so yeah so some of the papers like that's really random it's just like it's funny you're getting these just like little tidbits of trivia out of it all yeah but is it has it been relevant to you in terms of physics i mean you're basically you're working on software now right yeah but i yeah i also end up discovering really cool physics uh papers so for instance instance I my two favorite papers are actually written by Freeman Dyson one of them is the when he proposed the concept of a Dyson sphere they are it's just one page and he basically explained our an advanced civilization would need more energy than the energy that we can generate on earth so we would have to go to a star and build a cap around the star to extract the energy of a star. But it's funny because it's like with really simple math and physics equations, he was able to derive, OK, is this sphere stable? Is it going to eat indefinitely? And so it's a really interesting paper and the other one that I really like is is one about Feynman's derivation of Schrödinger equation and also written by Freeman Dyson and it just shows you know Feynman's intuition about quantum mechanics and it's also really simple and and easy to read even if you don't have a physics background um but one of the things that i that i i noticed from from like trying to find papers and annotating all these papers was that you know in the 60s and and and uh all like through the 20th century all these discoveries and all these papers were mostly like one, two pages. And yeah, like it's so funny. And also fairly simple to read. But the discovery of the neutron, it's like maybe one column, just the discovery of the positron, the Dyson sphere paper. They're really, really short papers and and fairly accessible why do you think they've gotten so long is it sort of like you know david foster wallace citing a million things because he doesn't have confidence i think is it's also a consequence of a field developing yeah just have uh you know more complex uh questions and and and so it's harder to to write they're also a little bit more detailed as to the methodology and the the the format of papers has gotten a little bit more formal in that sense where people follow us a very specific format and and I think that has added on to it but yeah nowadays they tend like the gravitationitation wave that we annotate, that's relatively, that's what, like 15 pages? Maybe. It would be interesting to analyze the constraints in terms of size that the journals were imposing like 50 or 60 years ago compared to what they are doing now. If they are forcing people to write, they were forcing people to write shorter pages shorter papers back then uh not sure but uh but i mean like if the the discovery of the the positron paper was published today i bet it wouldn't be just a single column well are they intended to be more reproducible now um good question maybe maybe um yeah i think or maybe it's just more complex problems that they are tackling now yeah it might be might be might be the case yeah yeah it's it's it's definitely not going back it seems like you don't really see the a trend anywhere of shorter papers, but yeah, it's interesting. Yeah. You go back to the sixties and fifties and it was pretty nuts. Glory days. Yeah. All right, cool. So, uh, let's go to another question. Uh, Polaris seven asks, what are the necessary ingredients in a good and impactful, uh, good and impactful science writing? This is also a good question. I don't think that I'm qualified to do, or like I haven't published that many papers to know that. But one of the things that we noticed, or at least I noticed from reading papers, is that sometimes it's not like the discovery paper that is the most impactful paper. So for instance, I just remember when quantum electrodynamics was discovered, there were three guys working on that problem. So Feynman, Schwinger, and Tomonaga. And they were sort of working independently on that problem and publishing papers on quantum electrodynamics and the the most impactful paper was actually um published by freeman dyson who at the time took took the time to analyze uh the um all the work and kind of uh unified the the the the work of feinman tomonaga and schwinger, wrote a paper that helped other researchers understand what quantum electrodynamics was back then and helped really spread their work. So it was actually the most impactful paper. So in other words, yeah, clear writing. Exactly. Yeah. Clear writing. Yeah. It's also, I i mean the question here is impactful scientific writing and so you have of course writing papers and then you also have just scientific writing in the sense of making some concept more explaining that to a general more general audience and so i think they're there um there's also, it's also the same where you wanna make it clear and you wanna make it accessible. But for instance, even like something like the Bitcoin paper where it is like, and I mean, I studied photography in college and even like, it took me a few reads through it to actually get it. And it's a beautiful paper, but but it's definitely not it's a very spartan language and you want to read every sentence in there and so it can be very challenging to to approach it and I think definitely it all you always benefit if you can make it as clear and accessible as possible because you never know like the the audience that is going to be end up reading your paper you get you of course you can expect other people in your field are going to read it but sometimes things can can be useful especially like interactions between math and physics things can be useful in different fields and so i think it's always beneficial for science if you if you try to make it as accessible and what's what does impact mean yeah i mean number that's a question as well yeah the did you see that one from adam uh adam babott asks the basically the metrics for value add yeah exactly what does yeah what does impact mean you know if it's the number of citations that you get or just the number of people that you know learn about a certain subject because of a paper so in that way a review paper can have a really big impact compared to a discovery paper and so it's it's one of the problems that we also think about a lot these metrics and what are the incentives in science and what makes people you know want to publish a paper or you know why should people worry about clarifying a paper and make it making it understandable to as many people as possible do they have the incentives to do that how can you create incentives to do that right and and and then sometimes you know if if you're just if the metric is just number of citations sometimes it's not aligned to to making the paper understandable and comprehensible to a large audience right i mean is that a is that a question that you guys have to tackle because you know on one hand you want to illuminate these papers that people could potentially learn from but then on the other hand you're running a site with content right and you want things that are going to capture attention so i saw you have the charlie munger uh posts on there right um nika annotated the charlie munger um paper okay our other co-founder yeah yeah so it's like squarely non-technical paper but charlie munger has millions of fans across the world. Exactly. Right. So you kind of have to balance those two things. Yeah. And yeah, it's not easy. And citations are definitely a proxy, right? If the paper is getting cited a lot, it has some sort of importance, but it's definitely not perfect. And if you look at the most cited papers in these different fields fields you might be surprised that there might not be the ones that you expected to be i certainly remember looking at like the most cited papers in computer science and they're definitely very impactful but um you might have some of them i remember reading through those ten and some of them i had never heard about before um and so yeah and and and sometimes very important, well, this is more specific for certain fields, very important concepts or discoveries never really get published in one paper that then gets a ton of citations or that knowledge gets spread in some other way. And so there are, yeah, citations are not perfect. I, but I, I, I wouldn't say that we have, um, a great answer for that. What's, what's a better proxy and how you should go about it. Uh, and I don't think, um, anybody really right now has a better answer to, or not that, not that we've heard about, but, uh, yeah, it's an interesting problem. We'll see what people start using in the future. Because you could measure impact or how many people are talking about it on social media. How many blog posts are written about this paper. Or if you have code, if you have a public repo, how many forks do you have on your repo? Yeah, and then it depends on field by field, right? So if you take bio, then bio papers can be used very directly, say, in industry. You can publish a paper about a drug and then that can be used worldwide and save lives so so they're like for for that field maybe you can there are a bunch of other metrics that you could use there to calculate the impact of a paper but for the more traditional science like physics and math sorry um yeah that's it's hard okay um question up top uh arsalan yarvesi asks uh it's basically about working in um public and in the speed of publishing they say since scientific papers usually go uh through scrutiny and evaluation before getting published how do you cope with not being um always updated and up to speed in a world with daily news and contributions this kind of relates to what we were talking about before in relation to people publishing to the archive before they really test it out um where do you guys fall in that dynamic of like publishing as soon as possible like with something like machine learning where things are just getting put out all the time versus going through a peer review before getting something out. And this kind of loops into peer review, which is a whole world unto itself that people are talking a lot about. For us generally, or say for a weekly journal, we generally are not publishing the most recent research. And there is definitely, like sometimes there's a lot of us having to catch up to even, I remember annotating a paper about this machine learning algorithm to play one-on-one poker. And this was like out of my league i had to go like spend a good amount of time there researching it and and also figuring out okay how relevant is this i also don't because you know i'm not in the field so it's hard for me to gauge okay what's the impact of this paper so um yeah there's there's sometimes it takes us a lot of a lot of reading up before we can actually say, OK, this is worth it's worth publicizing and making and having our audience or is where our stamp of approval and say, hey, you should read this. I think you like it. It can take a while sometimes. but in the future like looping back to peer review that's also something that I think the system nowadays does not seem to be perfect the way things work nowadays and we would love to see either via Vermont or some other platform to try to tackle that and try to do something to make peer review a better system or to change it significantly. I think there's a lot of work left to be done there, which can have a very significant impact in science. That's part of one of the most important aspects of science is just okay having a very skeptical mindset looking at it yeah with a very critical eye and uh and seeing okay is this is this something that we can build upon is this something that we're going to add to our foundations to build more science upon this and and so that's a very important aspect of science and and i think it's it's not perfect and could be better yeah so anvil rotterdam asks have you ever thought about building a tool for annotating books something like what patrick collison was talking about in this thread where he basically says i'd pay a lot more for books if i could see the highlights annotations and marginalia of friends or people i follow? I think it's actually a really good question. And we have a friend, Jess Riedel, from the Perimeter Institute. He's a researcher there that writes about these, wrote about these on his blog. And I think that besides annotating academic papers, it also makes total sense to annotate books. And especially kind of introductory books about science. And he gives this example of a book that is used by thousands of students to learn classical mechanics called Goldstein. And there is a section on that book where they talk about this transformation called the Legendre Transform. And he does a bad job at explaining what it is. But apart from that section, the rest of the book is awesome. It's really nice if you want to learn classical mechanics. And it's really nice if you want to learn classical mechanics. But if I want to write a book that does a better job at explaining the Legendre transformation, it has to be net better than the Goldstein book so that anyone will adopt that book. Otherwise, people just keep using the Goldstein book. it would make sense for for books to to to to be annotated and also be open source so that in that sense you would just uh you know commit a new chapter uh a new explanation for that and uh keep all the the the other chapters and then just change that bit instead of having to write a new book and then convince people to adopt your book yeah just because of that so i think it makes total sense to to to do that more introductory no and we we've thought about that though the type of things that you could do um if you if you had some platform where you could right where you could have um books that kept being updated and you could have okay this is the standard for learning calculus where you just just you know this is constantly being up to date you're adding exercises to it people are forking in like you if you need more information about this you're not understanding it you could deep dive you could deep dive into it and you have a bunch of additional content that is attached to it really feels like something that that should exist and we've thought about it uh like about doing something with Vermont for that. Yeah, it's so many things. In terms of copyright, are there massive issues there or is that possible? I think you might be facing some of the same challenges that Wikipedia is facing to an extent. some of the same challenges that Wikipedia is facing, to an extent, then yeah, it's, I think it would depend a lot on the format that is used. I do think there's, for something like this, you'd probably benefit from having some editor or like a team of editors to curate and to see, okay, what, like, should we add this should we not to an extent to to be some to be a curating voice in terms of copyright yeah you could run into some issues there well some of these especially the classic books like uh on electromagnet is more like they're out of copyright yeah yeah a lot yeah i mean my my impression was that these are uh maybe even like current books coming out like popular fiction even as annotated by oh yes famous person um so i mean maybe if they gave away their notes for free and they were just the layer on top oh yeah good uh but if you wanted to you know resell your own version of the book yeah that's interesting there's also some right there is uh some some legislation well there's fair use where you you can um use a piece of content if you're adding on to it or like right this is why you can you can have like a video on youtube with a snippet from a movie if you're reviewing it. There's some precedent there for doing this type of thing. But yeah, but for more general books, I also agree that it would be amazing because we were just talking about this. We've talked about this for a while now, right? Because you read a book and the purpose of that book is not only for you to absorb all the knowledge that is there but it's also to get you thinking about about what what's being talked about in the book and then you might reach some other conclusion you might go on a tangent and when you're reading it um that that knowledge might never be shared with anybody else you might just um read it yourself and you think and okay oh this just made me think about something else and it would be really like there's a lot of knowledge that is being lost and it would be great if you could capture it in some way the amazon kindle highlights site is one of the saddest things i've ever seen yeah have you ever done that we have kindles but we haven't never even oh yeah so there's a whole web interface for looking at all of your highlights across all of your kindle books it's not good so you do you use it for anything i mean sometimes i go back so like the the best way that i've found for me personally to retain is to buy the audio book and go through a book a couple times and then my retention goes way up but occasionally i'll be just like what was that passage in you know whatever book and i'll go back on to amazon and you can like it's from amazon yeah and you can dig through your highlights from your kindle i think i've seen like a startup that does that in a better way kind of pulls all your highlights and organizes them yeah on the kindle i remember looking into this but what what uh what i've what i've started doing is well if i'm ever i also use kindle and so that's um i don't do i don't usually don't don't write annotations via kindle some way or highlighting i usually don't use it for that but if i'm reading a physical book over the path whereas before maybe i would never write anything now i try to like write a lot more there yeah then at some point um if i have time to try to go through try to go through the book see where i wrote things and then write that in some notebook right and uh because there is like just just going through that that exercise of looking what you highlighted can be yeah very helpful yeah i mean even i was an english major in college so like i've forgotten more books than a lot of people ever read in college yeah uh and one of my professors actually recommended this which is basically take a five by seven index card and as you're reading the book you're making little notes right you're like all right this character does this or like this is an important point and then at the end you basically write a paragraph to your future self describing your memories of the book and what happens and like important ideas and that can really like trigger it for you to retain but past that like yeah no but i remember in school like, or back in Portugal, we all have to read this epic poem that is like, it's called the Lusia. And it was written by a poet back in the day. And it's about the Portuguese going from Portugal all the way to India. The Portuguese discoveries. And so I remember we had a version. You had the original version, which is pretty thick. And then we also had the version that had annotations on the side for each verse. Not for all of them, but for a lot of them. And that made such a big difference, right? Because you're reading in this in old Portuguese, which by itself is already hard to tell. And then he's making references that you have no clue about. So much historical context in every word almost. Right? The names of all, like India was not called India. So everything is different. And you're reading it through, the first time you go, it sounds great, it rhymes, but you don't understand a lot of the context behind it. And if you go through it and you read through it and then on the side, you have all this rich content that really only adds on to your experience and makes it much more memorable. You can map it out in your mind and create much more connections. It really enriches your experience. And of course, you have this because in this case, this is an epic poem that everybody has to read. And so there's a large incentive to publishing the annotated version of this book that is no longer under copyright. And so there you can have those types of things. But for a lot of more recent books, I think there would be, you could benefit a lot of more recent books i think there would be you could benefit a lot from having that to some extent right where you you can if you want to if you're reading through these few pages and you love what the author is talking about here you want to dig deeper into this topic that he's talking about right now there should be some place where you could do that um but yeah it's just nobody has actually built this i mean i think that like defaults toward the blogosphere for most people they just like some people summarize books and like write amazon reviews yeah yeah yeah but then the the thing there is that and sometimes that content does exist but the being able to find it easily having yeah having that like in your fingertips can make the whole difference. Maybe you could spend a minute searching on Google and you'll find the content that you're looking for, but if it was right there, you could just click and it would pop up and you'd see it, then it would be much more likely that you would end up reading that content. Those type of things make a big difference being right there do you find that annotations sometimes are best done by someone who is not the author of a paper i i what's interesting is that uh well the the authors of the paper um sometimes you know they are not going to know where people are going to struggle understanding the paper, oftentimes. I remember when I was annotating the Ethereum white paper written by Vitalik. I went through it and then I emailed him and it's super quick to reply and he replied back with some of the questions that he gets the most uh about ethereum it makes sense and then but when you're writing it you have no clue for you you've worked it out in your mind some steps you might skip because you just have internalized them by so much so you only get uh you only know where people are going to struggle once you put it out there and you start getting questions and so um yeah so sometimes the authors are not the best every time we talk with an author i think it's easier for them to answer questions about their papers than to annotate the paper but then if you have another person annotating a paper i think it's easier for them because but yeah with the authors we see that a lot yeah just ask me questions i'll answer them but sometimes i don't know how to enhance or add content to the to my own paper yeah you guys could provide that service for sure you could like reverse engineer clear papers yeah yeah it's kind of worth noting that this is a side project for you guys yeah uh how i mean i have so many questions about like how you go about building this thing that's like definitely consuming a lot of your time i mean it has to right between finding reading papers making all those like graphics and tweets and stuff that you guys do uh how do you find that balance like what what's your whole philosophy around this yeah so yeah it definitely takes its time it is something that we we actively tried to do after college and while we were working while we were just before doing for my reading reading papers and staying up today it's something that we try to do anyway and so um so we were already looking into research before it's just something that we would enjoy and then it would be we we found it good to have some sort of peer pressure amongst ourselves to present papers to each other right because that really forces you to understand something well right where I think it was fine when he has some quote where you don't understand something until you can like explain it freshman in college yeah and then and so that is that's very true and so we tried to do that amongst each other and then and so then we got to fermat and we thought okay maybe we can bring this this online and so so we were already spending an healthy amount of time doing this type of stuff uh but it is uh but with fermat you have to like the first version of fermat we kind of build it over the weekend and we try to just put it out there as fast as possible. And then it's mostly late at night. I'll be trying to fix bugs. People in Acronyms don't seem to think that it's a side project. It doesn't matter. And they're pretty harsh on it. So there are definitely bugs and sorry about that. We try to fix them when we have time. But it definitely takes its time. FRANCESC CAMPOY FLORES- But I think it's also something that all of us really like doing. And I mean, I start looking at Wikipedia articles about quantum computing, and then I like spend three hours clicking on articles and articles and articles. And then I found like five papers to annotate and I've produced like 10 or 15 tweets so it's something that we really enjoy doing yeah and so it's it's you know I think that's that's the real genius of it right it's like basically figuring out a way to turn your I mean if you have the desire exactly turn your what would be your hobby anyway exactly into this little inside project and having a forcing function because this type of thing is really easy to to let go right because sometimes yeah sometimes you might not feel like uh understanding a paper to the point where you could annotate it they're like it it takes a while to to get a good grip especially if it's not an area that you're super familiar with of course and so it's not, yeah, that's definitely not the type of effort that we just, you do on a Saturday night, right? Unless you add a forcing function that you know that within a couple of weeks, you're going to be putting this to a lot of people. That's my favorite part of the podcast. With the software stuff, it's pretty easy for me to just like, it could be anyone in the room and we can do a podcast but when we do physics ones or anything or math or something i'm just like oh my god i have to take a couple days just reading because i don't yeah yeah i'm not obviously i couldn't even become an expert if i dedicated a week to it but i want to be conversant to a certain extent and that part's fun yeah same with us like you definitely feel the pressure when you're writing these annotations yeah because people and people will call you up on it okay this is wrong or you missed this and so when you're writing it you want to be really careful make sure that that what you're saying is correct and you know that you might have some somebody that actually a college kid or whoever that is reading through that paper and then is going to use your annotation to help him understand. And so you have the responsibility. We feel that responsibility towards those people to do a good job at it. And when we put an annotation, we want to stand by it and we want it to be of quality. And it's funny. It's like the more you annotate a paper this is like a circle and the more the more you annotate a paper there are more people there are that are at the edge of starting to understand what the neighbor is about so you start getting more and more questions because the circle expands and then you just have more people that are like starting to understand this topic about number theory or physics or whatever so you get more and more questions about the paper so it's like and then when when do you stop explaining a certain concept so it's like you want to annotate a paper about number theory or number theory okay do you have to explain what a prime number is for instance or do you have to explain what a rational number is so it's it's really interesting once you start thinking about that that like how deep do you go yeah and um well you got to be careful about those youtube videos then because if you get discovered on youtube as an explainer series good luck people will start asking yeah yeah yeah yeah no no we've done a few of those but yeah we've annotated a paper that um it was um i think it was a proof of the irrationality of the square root of two and then um there was there was this um i think was 14 year old kid from from russia that because of that paper he came out with a an alternative proof for that. And the, he sent, he sent us that proof and, uh, I read the proof and it was apparently, it was legit. Yeah. And he said, I, I, I told him to submit that to, to, to a journal, a mat journal. Uh, and I think he did it. Uh, I haven't heard back from him, but I should reach out to him to see if he actually was able to publish it. So it's also nice to see how we can inspire people sometimes to do these types of things. And I also think, especially with Twitter, one of the things that we learned is that learning something, learning a concept or learning a fact is really, really really addictive and we see that on Twitter almost every day people come back and we have hundreds of thousands of users that read read our tweets and and I think that's why people really like when they have a good teacher and then when they can go to a class and really learn something. I think the problem is that usually that requires a lot of effort from people. You either have to go to a class or you have to read a book to learn something. And I think what we're able to do with our Twitter account was to provide that same feeling, acquiring a quantum of knowledge, but at the cost of reading a tweet which is really uh easy for the reader sometimes it's really hard to make those tweets it requires a lot of of reading and thinking how can you explain something with just so these characters and an image maybe but you know once you get to that and once you're able to to to teach someone a fact or or something uh people really like that and i think it's something that you know there there shouldn't there should be more people exploring that on twitter it's a very particular medium um but there's a lot of people that uh that that are uh attracted by that you You might not, yeah, you might not. A few years ago, I would have been very surprised, but now you have all of these scientific, be it explainers, but you have people that have millions of followers, and what they're following for is for scientific content, or they just wanna learn. And so that's something very uplifting that we've learned, that there's a lot of people out there that want to learn. I think it's too easy to get down on those people. They're just like, oh, you know, this is like base. It's fun facts or whatever. But like at the end of the day, like that's good. Yeah. People are excited to learn. They want to learn. And then you like extrapolate it out a little bit more and you look at someone like dan carlin doing the hardcore history podcast i think if you had objectively like written that down you're like all right i'm gonna produce 25 hours of content about the cons and people are gonna be into it i would have told you no fucking way and then you look at it and it's like millions and millions and millions of downloads yeah that's pretty cool there's some things you look at and it really catches you by surprise i mean this is parallel but it's like wikipedia for instance if you somebody had pitched wikipedia to me before wikipedia existed yeah i would have never guessed that would be possible yeah because you right like how are you going to do this like no incentive just just people are going out of goodwill they're going to add content to it. And it's going to be good content, reliable, things that you can use to learn. And that's just, right? That's not something that you would initially think would fit with human nature. But people surprise you positively, right? And the same goes for like stack overflow like people just out of goodwill they will go out and explain uh you know or try to help you solve your problems like there's there's something to be said that like humans have like some yeah some some untapped fountains of good will that uh that might but we might not be leveraging as much as we could. You see bright spots here and there, and Wikipedia or Stack Overflow, there's some projects that if you pitched them to me before they existed, I would be very skeptical that they would be able to get to the point that they are today. Of all the parallel universes, we are in the universe where Wikipedia exists. Exactly. There's got to be a lot of parallel universes where wikipedia doesn't it didn't survive yeah yeah well i mean it's like when you talk about you guys expanding you almost don't have to over engineer the incentive mechanism you know if you believe that is true right like annotating more papers is objectively interesting exactly yeah you you yeah for sure we have people i think um you know we'll always have people that are going to be interested in consuming the content and reading um then you have the other side how do you create incentives for people to annotate the papers i think that's a different a different game um but uh but yeah some things is just that it takes some time and we are totally when we started this we we we knew that it would take time until people cared at all about what you were doing and then it takes even more time to make any sort of impact on the issues that we care about but uh but for a lot of these things even say if you look at archive, archive was started in like, it's my age. So it's like started August, 1991. And it has taken a long time to get to where it is today. And if you look at the graph of submissions for archive, it's completely almost linear. There's no startup exponential acoustic growth. It's like completely linear, but it's arguably one of the things that has had the most, There's no startup exponential acoustic growth. It's like completely linear, but it's arguably one of the things that has had the most, or that has impacted the making of science or the distribution of science the most. But it just took a while to grow. And it seems like it's just going to keep growing linearly, but sometimes that's what you need. And so we are totally mindful of that. And we know that this might take a really long time until you can get to do what our ultimate vision is and to build that out. But some things, they just take some time. So do you feel pressure to achieve profitability or even sustainability in the business? Not at all. we never really thought about that yeah because because also probably because this is a side project yeah we never really thought about um monetizing or or achieving profitability it is like for some of these communities um you know like stackoverflow it's it's a for-profit company and i think it does a great job at what it does and and i'm probably happy that it is a for-profit company because they're just more independent and if if they have a good leadership leadership that takes it in the right direction it's great because they can they don't need donation to ask for donations to to keep going wikipedia is a non- a nonprofit and they've been doing great. So it's possible to do it both ways. We've just, because we have very limited resources, we try to focus all of our attention in the areas that are the most important into what we're trying to achieve. So, right, so that means like we have to prioritize it. So meaning our next step is going to be building the Chrome extension for archive versus doing anything else. Because we think that's what has the biggest impact. So that's why we never delved into profitability. And we just paid the costs ourselves. It's just server costs because we do all the work. So it's never something that has been in our minds a lot. And we think you could build these type of platforms, either for-profit or non-profit. So yeah, just something we will defer further down into the future. FRANCESC CAMPOY FLORES- It's a good question, for instance, could have Archive survived if they were a startup, instance yeah right if they were for profit yeah right could they could they uh raise money with that kind of linear growth if they were not inside a university right um yeah it's a good question yeah i mean plenty of companies without you know startup growth raise money and become profitable or sustainable oh yeah right you're just like okay what are you going to charge for get people to care because uh yeah i mean archive is great because it's open of course right and so many other journals exactly maybe dying out yeah because they're not yeah absolutely yeah yeah one of the trends that we've also noticed is a lot of a lot of people building journals on top of archive um and and we are even uh collaborating with with with a few journals one of them being the quantum journal which is a an overlay journal on top of archive um on the the quantum physics category and uh what they do is basically um so what is a journal is just a list of uh links to papers And so they don't have any hosting costs. They just have a page where they just have the links to all the papers that they decided to publish. And all the papers are on archive. So it's completely open. And what we are partnership with them is basically all the papers have the Fermat's library commenting interface. But we are seeing more and more of these journals popping up. So for instance, the Erdos discrepancy solution was published on one of these open journals called Discrete Analysis. And I think it's totally possible that these open journals get to a point where they have a reputation like science or nature as long as you convince people to to to you know publish the their papers on these journals it's it's there's nothing about science or nature that that um you know is unique to them and that prevents these these open journals to get to to that point Of course, it's also going to take time, but I think it's totally possible. Yeah, exactly. It is. I mean, a lot of people talk about this, right, where you have journals that put content behind paywalls and that content might have been funded with public funds. And so there's that whole discussion about that. And it is a tricky system to get out of because it is sort of in a stable equilibrium to a sense right because if you're a researcher you need that publication in in nature or whatever to get your postdoc position in a in a renowned University and so you have incentives for for the for the status quo to persist. But there are a few ways that you could get out of it. As Luis was mentioning, one way is for these open journals to start gaining more reputation. So that if, okay, getting published in discrete analysis, it's a big deal. It has a lot of reputation attached to it and once that starts to happen like you get more and more people just putting it all out there and on archive and and publishing it all in in open journals the other ways that you could that the you could get out of the system would be to for for specific fields like what we were talking about in machine learning where you have an incentive to publish as fast as possible because the field is just moving so quickly. And nowadays, journals or big conferences might take years sometimes. Yeah, a lot of time for submitting it until it actually gets out there. If you're submitting to NIPS or whatever for machine learning, it takes a long time for it to actually be officially published. And so you also have that incentive that if it's open publication, you can move much faster. And so it is sort of a tricky equilibrium to get out of, and that's why these companies make billions of dollars in revenue. And for instance, one way to get out of and that's why these companies that like make billions of dollars yeah in revenue and and and for one way to get out of it was just and and I think it's it's one of the ways that they are probably you know it's probably the way to to to get this open open journals to to be as as popular as as nature or science is to convince really people that already have a tenure or really famous scientists to publish on those journals. You already have your position, you already have your Fields Medal, your Nobel Prize, just publish on an open journal. And that's what Terence Tao did with the Earth's discrepancy and I think that's what other people are doing. style did with the others discrepancy and i think that's what other people are doing um and tim gowers which is the the the it's a field medalist also this mathematician which founded the discrete analysis open journal and i think he wrote a blog post a while ago and his mission was to convince famous mathematicians and and people in these um situations to publish on open journals yeah because for right for the young researcher that is trying to get a position in an uber-competitive field, then you need, right? Because if you want to get your postdoc in a renowned university, you need to have that. So that's what's keeping it alive. So these big names endorsing the open journals. I think that's going to be the growth act to increase the reputations of these open journals absolutely and it was interesting because because it is it is a problem and we definitely believe that that's the right direction and while you're in the US right like while I was studying at MIT you don't even realize it because if you're within the MIT network everything is open yeah right so you just that you're accessing it and when I was an undergrad I didn't even realize oh in other words if you're literally on the MIT Wi-Fi yeah you have access to these journals that are paywalled and you don't even see okay this is would be $30 if I was like five blocks down that way but Louise was studying in Portugal and so we would talk and then you'd compare like even in Portugal where, right? You have well-funded universities. But the research groups might not be able to afford all the journals. And so sometimes you just have a lot of trouble accessing research. Yeah. And so this is not in the U.S. It is like big institutions have access to it. So this is not in the U.S. It is like big institutions have access to it. But like in a lot of other parts of the world, the fact that a lot of research is being published in non-open journals has a significant impact. Well, especially when like legit CS papers are written by people who aren't associated with any university, right? They're just like hobbyists writing things. Like why would they have 100 journal subscriptions exactly possible ever yeah i remember even like researchers in my other researchers in my research group sometimes they would have to go through cern uh to to get through cern vpn through cern to to get access to these papers yeah or like i would have to email you and ask you to send me some pdfs yeah you're a good brother yeah i contribute it yeah five bucks um cool so if uh if someone wants to contribute or help out what can they do to help you guys there are i think there are a few ways that you can help us out um you can annotate a paper on verm's library. And so email us, team at Vermont's library. Exactly, if you want to annotate a paper there. You can spread the word, and if you're at a university, then we are. If you have a journal club, if you have a research group and you want to annotate papers and share them among your peers. When you create an account on Vermont like now you can also upload your own papers, right? You have that option and then you can share with whoever and you can create your own lists. And so we have people at universities that use this already, like be it for classes and students have to read papers. And so they will post annotations on on format or just within research groups and they all decide to read a paper. And so if you're a university, um, like, and if you want to use this, it's completely free. So you just need to sign up. Um, yeah, those are the two main ways, uh, that you can help us out. We're also taking cryptocurrency donations okay so there's that uh but but really like or most of our costs are just server costs it's all it's all so we don't have to pay salaries to anybody so yeah that's about it that's the way to to help us cool all right thanks guys all right thank you for having us.