 Maybe the best place to start would be, let's explain what Jopwell is, and then we can kind of go back in time and get to where we are now. Cool. Cool. So also, thanks for coming in. Absolutely. My pleasure. Thank you for having me. Appreciate it. Yeah. So Jopwell is a career advancement platform built specifically for black, Latinx, and Native American students and professionals. And we basically allow companies to diversify their applicant funnels before they hire the best people for the job um we got really frustrated when companies would say you know we can't find this talent um it doesn't exist and for us me being a part of the community it was kind of like bs it definitely does i i just i i'm here yeah and And there are 44 million black, Latino, Hispanic, and Native American students and professionals in the workforce that exist as well. And so we wanted to create a platform so companies can no longer say, oh, this is like a pipeline issue. We can't find this talent. It exists, and they're on job well. And what made this problem obvious to you when you were at Goldman? So it starts actually before Goldman and actually goes back to kind of where I'm from and kind of how I grew up. Let's do it. So my dad's from the Bronx originally, and he was the first person in his family to go to college and work in corporate America. He became a general counsel for a publicly traded utility company. And so I grew up in the type of household where to be successful, and I put air quotes around that, you have to be a doctor, you have to be a lawyer, you can go into finance, and that's it. And I felt this large responsibility to kind of move the family forward, as my dad did. And it was kind of like this thing that I grew up in this middle-class family where that was like a responsibility that my sister and I both felt. And so when I was in high school, Morgan Stanley was offering a diversity internship program. Somebody tapped me on the shoulder and said, hey, this is like that finance industry. You should pay attention to it. And I got lucky. I applied. I got the internship. And I started working there my junior, senior summers in high school, went on to college, went to Yale, played basketball there. And instead of playing basketball in the summers, I continued in a really early access pipeline focused around diversity recruiting. And I spent three summers interning at goldman sachs and i started my career there and i was there for three years buying and selling currencies and so while my background was getting early access um you know really starting when i was about 15 or 16 years old and i found my way into buying and selling currencies i recognized how unusual my path was, how fortunate my path was. And it struck me that, you know, despite me finding my way to my seat, I knew that a lot of other people weren't finding their way to a similar seat. And I kind of looked around and realized that it wasn't just a finance challenge when it comes to recruitment of people of color, it was really all industries. And at the time, the summer of 2014, right before I left, all the tech companies came out with the stats of the lack of diversity, which is something we all knew. But it was the first time it became really a national conversation. And so my co founder and I decided that we can we can make a solution for this. We can build a platform of people of color, and we can leverage technology to directly connect them with opportunities that historically we haven't been exposed to, and create that authentic connection between the employers and potential employees. And so that was really how we started. We wanted to make impact. And as a result of that impact, we also wanted to be able to build a profitable, successful business on top of it. So we set out from the start to build it as a for-profit entity and not a nonprofit, which there are many amazing nonprofits that focus on diversity recruitment. But we just took their approach to leverage technology, do it at scale and solve a problem. You know, going back to the whole YC mantra stuff. Were you guys engineers? Like, you know, so you're, you're trading currency. What gives you the idea that like, you're going to build this recruiting platform? I am to this day, still probably the least technical person at Jopwell. I was a political science major in college, zero, zero tech, tech bones in my body. political science major in college, zero, zero tech, tech bones in my body. Um, but, but I live through this. Um, I, I'm passionate about diversity recruiting. Um, I'm very intimately interwoven within all of the stuff that kind of goes on within recruiting. And so I, I, I from experience knew that this was like a major. And I knew that technology can help solve it. And even though I didn't know, I wasn't thinking through the code of what that would look like, I had a platform in mind of what it could be. So how did you test it out in the beginning? Or did you wait until you had something built before you started? Yeah. So basically, what ended up happening for me is that after my second year at Goldman, my cousin passed away. And for me, when that happened, it was kind of like the first, I've had plenty of people that I've known that have passed in different settings, whether it's my parents, friends, or neighbors, or whatever the case may be. But this was the first time that somebody that I would consider not only family, but a close friend passed. And given that he wasn't much older than me, it dawned on me that you can die at any time. And it was a true awakening for me to really figure out what the hell I want to do with my life and so after my second year I decided that I'm gonna go on this journey to figure out what do I want to do and I felt that given that I had an opportunity to play basketball at Yale and had this amazing network at Goldman Sachs I had a responsibility to leverage that for impact yeah and I didn't know what that impact was gonna come in the form of or the shape of. But when I kind of took a step back and after a year of kind of going through this thought exercise around challenges I see in the world, what I'm passionate about, what my experiences have been, it all kind of tied to diversity recruiting and providing opportunities for others through leveraging my personal networks. And so I told my parents at the time that I'm going to quit and build this company. And they said, okay, let me get this straight. You're non-technical. You've never built a business. You've never done recruiting. And that's going to be the company you start. I was like, that's exactly what I'm going to do. Right. And you're saying this to fairly conservative parents who are like, you have three options in life. They were not, They were not feeling it. They were like, you're you're you're literally going to die if you try to do that. And and that was a really frightening thing to have my parents say that to me. You know, it's a really awkward thing if you really look up to your parents and you respect them and and and you view them as like your role models. It's really not a natural thing to kind of go against what they're telling you is a really bad idea. But, but in terms of, you know, testing this out, I never really tested it out because I live through it. I was so convicted with it and I, and I like intimately understood what the pain points were. So, you know, ignorance is bliss to some degree. And so I had this vision of like, of course this is going to work out. I don't really have to test it. And I was so focused on doing my job really well when I was at Goldman that I didn't have the time to try to build a business on the side. I wanted to give 110% to what I was doing. And when the time was right to leave, then to give 110% to that. And so, you know, it wasn't probably a wise thing to do, but definitely took a leap of faith and said, this has to work. Why wouldn't it work? Yeah. I mean, just being in a large company, even, I mean, now it's more obvious, but even a few years ago, it was obvious that these companies really care and people like yourself want those jobs. So like, why not match them together? So did you start with a demand? Like, did you start with one partnership? How did that work? So going back to me being non-technical, it actually really helped because when you're building this two-sided thing, and I didn't come to find this out that this was a challenge until probably when we were going through funding for our seed round during demo day. That like you have to pick a side first. At the time, there was no choice because we couldn't build a platform for users because I couldn't build anything. So all I could do is make a pitch deck because that's what I was really good at being an analyst at Goldman Sachs. So I just set out to make a deck and I made this deck along with Ryan, my co-founder, and we just showed it to companies and said, this is what we're going to build. And if we build this, will you be a customer? And so we got really fortunate that when we made these phone calls, people answered, they took our meetings, they took the deck seriously. And they said, sure, if you build build this like we'll definitely be a customer because what you're trying to solve for is a real pain point of ours and we took a couple of very flimsy yeses as yes we have customers yeah and then from that we were able to raise a little bit of money hire some people built the platform got the other side okay and did you wait can you yeah there's a lot i see in the timeline of this okay so the July 3rd 2014 was my last day at Goldman Sachs all right September is called September 1st was when we kind of set out to make this pitch deck to show to companies let's say by the end of September we had about three or four soft yes sure when you build that let us know. Maybe we'll be a customer. But for us, that was like, okay, they're gonna be a customer. And we had them sign this one page letter of intent that says, if you build it, we'll partner with you. And then once we had that, by October, we decided, okay, we have customers, we need a platform, we have to raise money, and we need to hire people who can build it. And so we got very fortunate that people invested in Ryan and me, and we were able to raise $500,000 with family, friends, networks within a course of about a month and a half. Wow. Yeah. And it was like shocking to us. It's something that we didn't foresee happening. We thought it was going to take a year. But what ended up happening is that going back to, you know, like the networks that we were able to build, people invested in Ryan and me. them what we were doing with people that have known us in the past and they were so supportive. And then it started kind of, as we all know, when you don't need capital, you start to get the capital. So once we started getting our first few checks, it was downhill from there. And then, so now in November or so, we hired our first engineer, a person I went to high school with. And so now we had a team of three and we also hired another individual who I went to high school with. And so now we had a team of three and we also hired another individual who I went to high school with. So we had a team of four with one engineer, one engineer, three, three non-technical, one engineer. All right. Okay. And now this is in, call it November, December. Yeah. So side note, were you, were you in any way experienced vetting engineers zero okay so you're just like i don't know they seem nice i went back to my high school 50th reunion for their first black student and there was this amazing gathering okay and and we were kind of you know networking with one another yeah and uh randy brown um was standing next to me a person that was a couple years younger than me in high school i'm kind of hey randy how's it going like what are you what are you up to he's like well just graduated college and i'm still working on my thesis i was computer science major in college and so i'm kind of playing out my thesis full time now but it's not really going that well and just trying to figure out what I want to do. And well, we just raised a little bit of money. We're looking for an engineer. So Randy became our first engineer. And so, you know, and I think that's the story of a lot of people where you just hire your closest friends and people. Yeah, it's pretty common. And common. And so that's, that was our story. And it also ties into our first four people were African-American. And the reason why I even bring that up is because you have a lot of small companies that their first four employees are white males. And it grows from there. And so in our DNA, we started out as incredibly diverse. Actually, not diverse because we were all the same, similar backgrounds and ethnicities. And so we have to grow out of that. And you have to be really intentional about growing out of that. But as you hire your friends and your friends' friends, and that's how companies scale. So when we think about the difficulties of how companies kind of get to where they are, where there's a lack of diversity, we experienced it from a very extreme other side of things. But it's the same thing, right? It's not this. It's just like hire a friend, go from there. And then, yeah. But you have to be intentional about it and you have to be aware of it. Yeah. And so. So then you apply to YC for the winner batch? No. So we then actually applied to New York Techstars and did not get in. And this was in December. Made it to the final round. They basically said, I don't understand. Diversity recruiting is not a big challenge. And you guys don't have anything. Like, I don't know why you think this would be a good idea. And so we're like, OK. All right. We'll appreciate the feedback. We then launched the platform in January. Users came onto the platform rather seamlessly and it was kind of like a no-brainer why wouldn't you sign up we had those companies that said that they would be there they were there they were they were actual employers started getting a lot of traction a lot of users a lot more companies and it kicked off really quickly. And then so around March or so, applied to YC for their summer session. Got you. And got in. And so it's a good thing we didn't get in the rest of the system. So a good thing that you have these setbacks and you get so excited about these accelerator programs. And it becomes this distraction. And it was so fortunate that we didn't get in and it was so devastating at the time but then six months later four million dollars later we're in YC yeah so you're still here so live the company exists yeah yeah so just so I understand from the from the supply side yeah these people these underrepresented employees and tech and finance it's all across industries right yeah um they're still applying to these companies right so why are they looking for a platform like job well versus just applying linkedin or whatever absolutely so the way that we like to think about it is that um many many people when they are applying for roles or opportunities, you generally know somebody. There's some attraction to that organization. There's some connection to that company. And for people of color, if you look at the numbers in tech, for instance, if 2% of your workforce is black and 3% are Latino or Hispanic, odds are you don't know anybody that works there. And odds are you're not going to have that champion that kind of says, hey guys, I'm looking out for this person, make sure you screen this candidate. And so what we want to do and what we want to be is the referral at scale for our community. So if Joppa partners with these organizations, we want to be your foot in the door and that entity that becomes your referral, if you will. And so when users on Jopwell are saying, you know, why don't I just apply? You can and you should, but you're going to go into a black box unless you know somebody. And when you apply on Jopwell, really what that means is that you're applying to companies that truly value diversity because they are partnering and paying Jopwell to have access to this community. And when you apply through our technology, we can flag candidates to companies. And so we can ensure that they have a more diversified pipeline. Now, we can't ensure you want to get a job. that they have a more diversified pipeline. Now, we can't ensure you're going to get a job. We don't know the candidates on our platform on that one-to-one level. We are fortunate that we have a large community. Can anyone just sign up? Anybody can sign up, but we're very direct in who the platform is built for. It's built for Black, Latino, Hispanic, and Native Americans. And so that's what the community has grown to be, just that. And so when candidates are applying, and when we let the companies that work with Joppa know, hey, you had 1,000 people apply for this one role, or you had 30 people apply for this one role, now they can ensure that they have a more diversified pipeline because they have job well candidates in their funnel along with other candidates okay and now we can at least make sure that before they hire the best person for the job that they have a diverse applicant pool and um and that's where we come in so yeah a couple questions so we had one question from Twitter about the pipeline in particular. Where are people coming from that are signing up for Jopwell? Yeah, so we've been incredibly fortunate that the community has really accepted what we're trying to achieve. We fundamentally believe and truly understand that we can't be successful unless we have the support of the community. We're a product of the community. We're building this for the community. And so they've grown our community. And it's largely been through word of mouth. Joppa being incredibly involved with various activations and clubs and organizations and forming really strategic partnerships and really being the solution at scale that a lot of smaller organizations haven't been able to really focus on. They focus on a lot of coaching, training, mentoring, which is so important. And for us, we just took a different approach that we wanted to do it at scale and leverage technology to connect people to opportunities, but formalize relationships with all these amazing organizations that are doing such amazing work to figure out a way to both help them and for them to help us. And so a large part of our growth on the community side of the platform has been a result of the community really leveraging Joppa. And regionally, you said they're East Coast, West Coast for the most part? The major metropolitan areas is really where we do the best. We tend to focus most of our employers to be within like major metropolitan areas. A lot of our user base comes from those similar surrounding areas. Gotcha. And so we, you know, we stay kind of focused on that. And then on the second part of the question from Twitter was about are there certain roles that maybe differ from the average in terms of job well candidates getting and doing well in our. I would say all across the board, the candidates do really well in terms of the types of roles, whether it's in finance or tech or consulting or sports. of roles, whether it's in finance or tech or consulting or sports. But what I would say is that what we do really well in is call it people within their 20 or 30 somethings within their age range. And so really that entry level to mid-level talent is where we thrive the most. We do have people that we would consider executives on the platform, but it's less of a sweet spot for what we do Mm-hmm. So if you are typically, you know in college or call it sub 12 years or so in the workforce That's kind of where we operate the most. Okay, got you and So in terms of the industry as a whole you guys are I mean obviously this diversity Conversation super important and only more talked about in the past couple years since you guys are, I mean, obviously, this diversity conversation, super important and only more talked about in the past couple of years since you guys have been around, in 10 years. What have you noticed in terms of changes in the industry, and where do you see it going from here? So the first thing, and it's more of a frustration, but when I hear the word diversity and I hear people describe diversity challenges, I think that, one, when I hear that, I don't really hear much because that diversity, it could be anything. You can make an argument that anybody is diverse. And that really, I think, inhibits companies from actually moving the needle when it comes to what their actual challenges are. So if you're looking across corporate America, and the reason why Joppa is built for black, Latino, Hispanic, and Native Americans, it's because it's the most underrepresented groups within corporate America. And so companies that have a really difficult time connecting with this audience, they should just say that and not just say we have a diversity challenge. They need to be able to truly identify what diversity challenge, like what vertical of diversity are you kind of focusing on? And then you can find solutions for that particular thing. And so I think the companies that are the most intentional and are willing to have the most uncomfortable conversations are the ones that do the best. And they need to be able to clearly articulate to their organization about why diversity or a particular subset of people within the diversity umbrella is so important to that organization. It's been proven time and time again now through multiple studies. McKinsey has come out with a couple of studies, BCG, around having a more diverse workforce leads to bottom line success. And it just makes sense. And if you're trying to build a world-class organization and you're trying to invent products that are going to change the world, how can you do that without people at the table who have differing backgrounds and experiences and opinions? And by the nature of being a person of color, I'm going to experience the world differently than maybe my white peer. And so even using me as an example where, yes, I had a fabulous opportunity to go to Yale. I'm so fortunate for that. But at the end of the day, I'm a black male in this country. And when I'm outside and I'm engaging with people, I don't have a Yale tattoo slapped on my forehead. People first identify. And as I first identify as a black male and there. And so therefore, I am seeing the world through a different lens. I'm experiencing the world through a different lens. Even if I had a white counterpart that also went to Yale, we're still going to experience the world in a different lens. So when I come to the table and I'm giving you my experiences and my background and my opinions, just being a person of color in America, I'm going to have a different thought than what you might come to the table with. And that's important. And that leads to innovation. And so it's so important that companies have a mixture of people from different backgrounds, ethnicity, sexual orientations, you name it, you need that, that you need that, that, that tension, that those conversations to occur, because that's where innovation happens yeah i so i agree with you but the what i'm trying to figure out is you say okay diversity saying broad like we want a diverse workplace like to you is just like no noise for the most part um but you want to be specific right so how do you be specific and inclusive of those people without being by default exclusive of other people yeah absolutely so i think that's that's something that a lot of companies feel that they um again it's going back to like that uncomfortable conversation yeah yeah totally because people are scared right they're like oh shit like i didn't want to offend that person by trying to include this person whatever absolutely i think so long as companies frame it within the organization itself as we're doing this because it makes business sense and stick to like this leads to bottom line success for this company if we diversify and we really start to attract candidates from different backgrounds that we haven't recruited from in the past, we need that in order to stay relevant. The demographics of America is shifting. By 2040, the people of color in this country are going to be the majority for the first time. So if you can't build for the future, you're going to get passed. And it's such a business imperative conversation that if you keep it at the business level, I think it becomes less of an awkward conversation and less so of, oh, we can't bring this group of people in. We can only focus on this. It's like, no, we're trying to be the best organization possible. We don't have a lot of representation. We need more representation from these groups within America. We don't look like what the broader American society looks like and what it's shifting to be. So we need to double down and triple down on those efforts. And I think that if you can have that conversation and keep it at the business level, then it becomes less uncomfortable. I guess the question that I'm asking is like on the positioning side. So like outwardly facing, how do you best deal with that to attract the most different kinds of candidates to make your company better? So- You know know like work with drop all right like obviously but yeah that that's the obvious thing but i but i think the more important thing is recognizing that you're struggling in an in a particular area yeah and as a result you should ask for help i don't care if it's through Joppa or somebody else, but I feel that a lot of tech companies want to build a way out of it or they want to solve it themselves. Okay. So yeah. And so, and so I think that a lot of organizations, again, going back to kind of how Joppa started hiring a couple of friends and how many organizations starts where you hire a couple of friends, you have to get outside of your comfort zone. You have to find different pipelines to attract different types of talent. And you need to be vocal about that and publicly facing about that because companies like Joppa and other organizations will come to the call. And so, and by being so out there and being so public about what you're, what you're lacking in, you more authentically present yourself in a favorable light to a community of people that you're calling out to try to attract. And you're saying, we're looking for you. We need you because we're trying to out-innovate our competitors. And so I think raising your hand and just saying publicly, we need assistance with a particular challenge is the way that you kind of get out your own way and you start to unlock other pipelines of talent. Right. And so does Facebook's, I mean, not Facebook, but like tech in general, the breakdown of these types of employees, does that match the computer science enrollment in terms of percentages? Or is there a drop off? What I'm wondering is about if we're going to increase the number overall, does it start when people are seven years old and you get them into CS? Or, yeah, how does that work? So what also kind of frustrates me about when we hear the reasons as to why they can't find this talent. It all goes back to why we started Joplin with people saying, oh, we can't find this talent. Yeah. And when companies say, oh, you know, there's not even like the pipeline of black, Latino, Hispanic, Native American american engineers one that's not true and the data does not suggest that at all and and what is laughable is that let's say that is even the case okay let's just say that is even the case which it's not but let's just concede that and say okay OK, sure, sure. What about everything else? What about every other non-technical role within your company? If your company is 2% black or 3% Hispanic or Latino, you can't say that you can't find enough people who are people of color in non-technical roles, sales, consulting, finance, HR, you name it. And so if your organization is still not a representation of what America is broadly, you can't point to the pipeline thing. That just doesn't, it doesn't hold up. Do you, do you just kind of not have that conversation with companies? What we're really fortunate about and again from like a business perspective i fundamentally believe that if you're making two pitches to a company you're making two different cells yeah hey this concept is a really good concept and you should use us to for this particular concept that's a lot of that's a lot of convincing in a conversation we're incredibly fortunate now we can call it're fortunate, but we are very strategic about the companies we work with because we're only making one sell. We don't choose companies to work with that don't believe in the value of diversity. So the only sell we make is why you should use Dropwell. So we never get into the conversations around why diversity is important to your organization because they understand it. They've reached out to us. We're very transparent and very vocal about what Jopwell stands for. So as a company, if you're reaching out to work with Jopwell, we shouldn't have to educate you on the value that a diverse workforce can bring. And so we just talk about why you should be leveraging Jopwell and our technology and how we can diversify your applicant funnels. Okay. Yeah. Let's talk about that actually, because there are a bunch of companies that have gone through YC or just are interested in listening to the podcast or whatever that are doing recruiting, right? So zooming out a little bit from Joppa's specific focus, what is your advice for running a recruiting platform for entrepreneurs? I would say that if you're trying to build a hiring platform, you have to be known for something. You have to have a particular focus. You can't just claim to have quality talent. You have to be providing a real solution to a real problem that companies face. You should probably associate with that problem. You should probably have experienced that in some capacity or have empathy as to why that challenge exists. at in some capacity or have empathy as to why that challenge exists. You should be very passionate about whatever group of individuals you're trying to serve to unlock that opportunity. And you should be doing it because it's making impact, not because you think it's a company that can make a lot of money. And if you can kind of stick to those things and you can build something that becomes sticky and everything else happens as a result of that then great happy days for everybody but to start the company you really have to isolate a particular challenge and pain point that employers face and just work on that one thing okay and and can you talk about that specifically in the context of your product like what what are some things that you guys have worked on that have been meaningful increases and like you know whether it's people getting jobs or onboarding new companies or whatever so going back to kind of like my story, how when I was kind of growing up and, you know, again, like as my parents told me with air quotes now, you know, you got to go into finance if you're going to be successful or you have to be a doctor or a lawyer. There are a lot of people of color, particularly in America, where you grow up thinking I can only work for these particular industries or these particular companies. And so you go through life thinking, that's really all I'm qualified for. And what we've been able to do is through technology, which has been so awesome to be able to do this, is that when you create a profile and you give us all this information that's proprietary to Jopwell from, yes, your background and, you know, your work experience, but more importantly, what your interests are, what types of work environment do you want to work in? Where do you want to live and work within the country? What words describe yourself? Write a leadership moment, write a personal bio about yourself. What are your dream companies? Like when we collect all of that information and we can take an account what you've done and what you're currently doing, now we can expose you to opportunities that you didn't even realize you were qualified for. And so we are showing candidates that, you know what, you were pre-med in college. Do you know how incredibly qualified you are to work in tech or to work in finance or to work in a variety of different other industries? Or that political science major like I was, but I was very operational in my mindset, which enabled me to kind of build a tech company, how qualified I am to work in particular industries. And so what we're now able to do is expose our community to opportunities that historically they haven't been exposed to, and really start to truly diversify industries that didn't know how to connect with this audience. Yeah. And so but we've only been able to do that through a product in leveraging technology. And do you is it common for these people on job well to be getting their first job here? Or is it do you have people coming back to job well to like trade up or switch out or whatever? So we're three and a half years old and we're just starting to see candidates that have got their first job and now they're getting their second job on job well. And that's been awesome to to kind of go through for the first time um but again like our sweet spot is typically that entry to mid-level so sometimes it's candidates looking for like their third job um their first job and everything in between so yeah because i'm just curious because you mentioned showing people the past and i totally agree i think that's like basically how every person goes through life and they're like oh you, a friend of a friend started a tech company. So I know them. I'm the smartest of them. I can do a tech company. But if you don't have that, it's really difficult. So yeah, I mean, you're talking about this is your sweet spot. Will that evolve over time? Or do you think this is the area that will always be? No that'll always be. No, absolutely. So going back to kind of like the YC mantra of like doing things that don't scale. Like when we first started, we were very campus focused and it was just university. And then by, you know, the brand of Joppa just being in the world, people just started signing up from all different, you know, age ranges. And so we kind of took a step back and examined the community and we decided, okay, Joppa needs to be more than just internships. It needs to be professional opportunities as well. But as a result, we should speak to you very differently depending on the stage of your career. So what we've now done with our platform is that based on certain tags and triggers and whatnot, we speak to you in a different tone. So people, when they interact with Jopwell, they have different personas at Jopwell that they're interacting with. Not everybody has the same experience on the platform. And the more experienced you are, the more personalized it feels. And that's a really important thing for us. Mm-hmm. It's kind of a random question, but I know certain people that are fairly vocal in, for example, like women in tech, but then sometimes they're just like, I want to just talk about product. Do you ever feel that way? I do, but I have a responsibility to speak about being a black founder. Yep. to speak about being a black founder. Yep. You know, it really is painful to see the lack of black funding that occurs. And it's, again, when VCs say, oh, well, there just aren't black founders. That is so, it's like scratching on a chalkboard. And it's so frustrating. Yeah. And so I feel like I do have a responsibility to speak a lot about diversity, speak a lot about the funding path that Joppa went down, speak about my experiences going through Y Combinator. I recognize that with this position of being the CEO of the company, that's part of the role. And so, yes, I would love to just speak about product and what we're working on, but our entire ethos as a business is to unlock opportunity. And if I'm not talking about those things that can help others become entrepreneurs and hear my story about my parents telling me I'm crazy, but still kind of taking that leap, then I'm not, I'm not living up to what I'm supposed to be doing as a CEO of this particular company. Right. Well, it's also just, I mean, it's kind of like part of you, so you can't not talk about it. It's impossible not to. Did you find, again, again, it's like you, so it's hard to compare and contrast an experience raising money as a black founder do you find it to be different um it is very different okay and and it can feel very intimidating okay until what ended up happening for me is that during one of our pitches with a really prominent, very prominent VC. The conversation started with a lot of a lot of associates and a lot of partners around this table following Y Combinator and the question to basically start the meeting before ever going through the first slide was I don't think this is a good idea. This is not a publicly traded company. And when you start out the conversation like that without even going through slide one, something happens in you. And for me, that something happened was where I fully recognized for the, not for the first time. I mean, I've always had the confidence and whatever and being an athlete and having that athletic mindset. But it was really the first time where I kind of came back and was like, you know, to be honest, like, you don't know what you're talking about. Like, I'm from this community. I know the pain points. I know what the opportunity is. I know how much money our community'm from this community. I know the pain points. I know what the opportunity is. I know how much money our community spends in this country. I know how much of a challenge it is for these organizations to hire people of color that I'm the expert in this and you're not. And so to all of a sudden flip the conversation on, let me teach you something. And I'm the teacher and you're the student now that gave me all the leverage in the conversation. And once a senior partner at a firm feels like he's being taught in a very respectful way, the leverage changes. Right, so in other words, like having deep knowledge of something gives you the confidence to enter any room and have the conversation. Absolutely, so now after that experience. Yeah. And it turned out that that we had a fabulous conversation following that. And they are an investor in Joppa and they're in a VC that we work closely with. But after that experience, every time I enter a room, it's I'm going to explain to you and share with you why this is an amazing opportunity. And by the way, we don't need your money. And that's always like a very powerful position to be in. So, yes, being a black founder and going into a room where there's literally nobody that looks like you is a very intimidating thing until you flip it on its head and you recognize that you're coming with a very unique experience and and and an opportunity that they have never thought through so it's so rare to be the expert in that room but you are the expert in that room when you're talking about a challenge that's uniquely that you faced um would you apply the same learnings to going through yc or were there different yeah so i think what the most powerful learnings to going through YC or were there different? Yeah. So I think what the most powerful thing for me going through YC has been is that we know so intimately well what we're trying to do. And our vision, our vision is so locked in on what we're trying to achieve. Yeah. But I'm a first time entrepreneur. I'm a first time CEO. And no matter what it is you're trying to solve, there are certain things that like YC can just tell you, you're going to step in the shit in this area. And you should think about that thing that's going to happen six months from now. And all of these things, these war stories that you get access to, they all happen. And so combining the knowledge of YC for like what's about to happen and what you need to think through combined with having a really set vision has made all the difference in the world. And now being, you know, $12 million in theC as, as, as a real alum to speak to other alums that are now going from 50 to a hundred. And what's that process like? And so that's, that's just ahead of us. And I'm excited to kind of, you know, jump into that now. Right on. Um, broadly speaking, what were your learnings and lessons from YC? Because we are like the majority of people listening to this are maybe thinking about starting a company or in the process. Could you condense what you learned? Absolutely. So the number one thing that I took out of YC because it has a lot of implications is that funding is an outcome of building a good business. And it sounds so simple. And I didn't fully appreciate it when everybody was kind of preaching that when we were there. Like, guys, stop focusing on demo day. Just make traction and everything else will kind of happen. Again, it sounds so simple but when people ask me like okay like how do i go and get vc funding i'm like well build a good business and and by having that concept of just building a good business it truly eliminates so many distractions yeah and it helps prioritize your day yeah where you're just focusing on making a good business and focusing on your customers and building something that they want. That when you lift your head after a year, VCs are calling you and the process isn't difficult to raise money at that point because you're just talking about your business and your traction. And that was the number one thing because, you know, as I mentioned, like without a company or a product, we apply to tech stars. We had no business applying to anything. We should have just built a good business. And by the time we apply to YC, we had built a business that was getting traction. And 10 weeks later, we raised three and a half million dollars on demo day. And it was just because we built a good business. on demo day and it was just because we built a good business and um you know that's something that uh you read a lot of blogs and you follow all these famous vcs and you're like oh i would love to raise their capital and you're so focused on the wrong stuff it's unbelievably distracting and i think people get in their heads that like that's what winning the game is and they also lose sight of the fact that these investors have lps in other words they have their own investors so all this like content marketing that they're doing has an interest yeah and their interest is like you are in this vc game and so i think it's great if you want to do a startup and raise vc but a lot of people are like like basically taught that that's the only way to build a business and that's also not the only way to build a business so yeah yeah and then it's like you realize wait a minute why am i going to dilute my dilute myself why don't i just make money from customers and not have to raise money great too and so yeah that's you can just do it your own way yeah you don't have you don't you don't have to and and if you could build this. And what I tell people is that if you can build a small business, like try to build a small business first. Worry about the big business down the road. But just try to make $100,000 with your company. Like try to make $500,000 with your company. And then see what happens. But people get so caught up. And I was what happens. But people get so caught up. And I was in it. You get so caught up on raising capital and trying to get to certain milestones of ARR and all this stuff. Just like, go out and make $100,000. It's that easy. It's so simple. And it's such a weird thing because going through YC, what I take out most of YC is not about the demo today and the funding. It's about building a good business. Yeah. And it's so something you wouldn't, you know, associate, you would think that like from the outside, it's like raise as much capital as you can. And that's just not what gets preached at YC. It's just build a good business. And that's by far what I take the most out of the program. And what have you learned since? Have you made any, I don't know, any mistakes or any counterintuitive learnings? It's been a couple of years now. Focusing on the culture. It's the number one thing that like, you know, when you're, when you're four people, it, it don't really have to focus on it. It just, it's just, you know, it is what it is. And when you're 10 people, you really don't have to focus on it. Yeah. At some point when you're 15, when you're 20, you as a CEO, that's your job. And it's your job to make sure that the vision is clear. Everybody can talk about what that vision is. Everybody understands what their KPIs are, what they should be focused on. You're the captain of this boat and there's land out there and you have to tell people which island you're going to. And you have to be very set on that path, but be flexible enough to adjust. Meanwhile, you have to keep the crew happy. And it's a balancing act and it's a juggling act. And it's something that I was really good with until we were 12 people. I was always a captain of my basketball teams. I was always a captain of my basketball teams. I was always a captain of my baseball teams and all that stuff. So managing and coaching and leading anything sub of 12, 13 people came naturally. Once we hit the 15 number, I started losing my own way because I was friends with people, but I was their boss. Like I wanted to like hang out with them, but I had to like give them critical feedback. it was really when we had 15 people that I would say I had the most difficult kind of like reflection on on like who do I want to be as a CEO and then being a CEO is like a real thing and I thought like being a CEO was just oh you you do sales and and that's and that's kind of what you do and you just have a cool title yeah but it's not like you have being ceo is keeping everything together and and having a clear vision and constantly driving that home and so for me i would say 15 to 20 people was definitely my largest learning experience where i had to recognize that i'm not your friend first. I'm the CEO of Joppa first. And I can be a colleague second. Yeah. And that, or friend second, if you will. And that really helped me find my voice again. And now 35 people, I've, it's around structuring my day. So I have like, I'm very intentional about my schedule and my calendar now. Like I'm, you can't just pull me into a meeting. Like you have to give me an agenda of what the meeting's going to be on. I have particular blocks of time. You can, we can, we can have meetings and I just have to be really protective over my time. And so like, that's like the next phase of learning that I'm going through that. Like, it's okay to give yourself a four hour block where you're just thinking about the business and you're not being pulled into meetings to be busy. Like if I don't need to be in the meeting, I shouldn't be in the meeting. I think that's a lesson for everyone. Yeah. Not just CEOs, but yeah. Absolutely. Did you have a coach or did you just read books or blogs or what, what did you do? A little bit of everything. No, no direct coach. Um, mostly books. Um, a lot of just speaking with people. Yeah. And I would say just most of it getting feedback from, from people who work at job well, and just being very intentional. Now I have a coffee session where every morning I get coffee with a different employee for about 45 minutes. Cause I go get coffee anyway. So I might as well go with somebody and just sit down and just have a conversation. And it's in those one-on-one settings that I can get real feedback and it's just listening. And I don't have a big enough ego to think that I know everything. Again, as I said, I'm not the most technical person in the company. I'm not the best technical person in the company i'm not the best product person in the company i'm not the best marketer in the i'm not the best of anything in the company but i have a real clear vision on what i want jopple to be and and so i want to hire people who have the expertise and i want to learn from them and so um it's a constant learning it's constant feedback and it's just being humble enough to recognize that like you know you got it you got to bring people into the fold to help you through stuff yeah dude that's great well i i think we should wrap it up there thanks for coming in absolutely my pleasure thank you you