 Let's start with an explanation of what Dots is, what the whole entity is, and we'll just go from there. Okay. So Dots started as sort of this little art project that was born at Betaworks, which is an incubator investor in New York City. And it was sort of my final synthesis of sort of art and technology which i'd been like sort of dancing in between up until then so games was this really natural progression so it's sort of my first foray into that and i think it was like a lot of right place right time um i think the idea was like simple enough uh that would just sort of i think as a group we're kind of surprised by how well and sort of how far it took off and sort of the fan base that it resonated with yeah and so we've now built a studio around that idea and had you made a game of any kind before it's funny i feel like i right when i started learning how to program i was like uh messing around with like 2d arrays and grids and like like very similar to what dotsots sort of became, but that was 10 years earlier. And then I kind of hit a wall because I was so new to programming, so I moved to server-side stuff and started doing much different type of work. So it was interesting to come full circle back to that after programming for a long time. But in the interim, there wasn't a lot of like interest in games huh yeah and why art and technology then like what what made you synthesize it to um around dots yeah well because I mean it obviously resembles a Damien Hirst piece right um did you try out other things where you're like oh maybe I can match this up or was that the first yeah so the like big point of inspiration was this artist yeo kusama so the year before i went on this trip to japan and sort of uh went to the city matsumoto where they were in a retrospective of this artist's work and it's all like dot based um it's a little more like off the grid than uh damien hurst yep but the whole city was sort of like covered in her work. So the buses were wrapped, the like cook vending machines were wrapped. There's like a couple big museums that were showing just her work. And so it was sort of dots everywhere. And so the way the program at Betaworks was run was like it was basically an open prompt to build a prototype of whatever you wanted within three or four months. But there was like, you It was basically an open prompt to build a prototype of whatever you wanted within three or four months. But you had to launch something at that time. And so I was looking back on that trip, and I think her work was really formative because it was beautiful but accessible. So it was like the idea that it could almost be playful to be interacting with something beautiful was kind of the impetus. be to be like interacting with something beautiful okay uh was kind of the impetus and so i like started with screenshots of just like what could a mobile game look like that would be different from what sort of what else is available yeah um and the gameplay kind of came from that design like it was very much like okay here's what it here's what it could look like how would this play and so i started sort of like the rules kind of came from there and are you prototyping these interactions and then showing them to people are you asking i i don't know much about game development so like how do you figure out those mechanics i think it was really cool is that so paul murphy who would later become my co-founder with dots the way he ran this program at beta works was that basically every week we would check in on thursdays and sort of either talk about what you like sort of did or sort of later in the program show what you had completed and so we got in this like weekly cadence that I really wanted to show something every Thursday and so it kind of drove that prototype really quickly and I like made me want to make things that I was proud to show um and so i found that was a great way to to produce that type of game um and so it was like every week getting in people's hands and sort of seeing how people reacted yeah and is that the same way you develop games now how many games are you guys making now so we've put out um so we we sort of have three that are live in the store. We've done a few others that didn't make it to full releases. So we can get into it later, but it's like, we'll put stuff in sort of test market and sort of do that on a bigger scale. So I think Dots was really born out of like friends and family testing it. And now we sort of just need to do things at a bigger scale to know sort of how it'll resonate with people beyond our sort of network. Yeah. And so the initial launch, how was it received in the beginning? Again, I think a lot of luck, a lot of right place, right time. I think Betaworks, it was like a first, their first foray into games. And so I think their network, which is like a very substantial and influential network. I think it felt cool to them to be a part of a game launch. And so they were great advocates for it. And so people with tons of Twitter followers talked about it day one. And then I think Paul was forward thinking. He was like, we've got to try Facebook marketing, which at the time no other, I think, very few other Betaworks companies were doing. But he was just like, this is a good thing to test that with. So we had a really small budget. And I think there was actually a mistake. And it all got instantly bought a ton of players. But it was like $10,000, I think. It was still relatively small compared to like other budgets now yeah but you spent it in like one day like one hour it was like just a bug i think paul's talked about it like he fucked up but it kind of worked out um so it's kind of like that great word of mouth there's like this uh foray into in the facebook marketing in like a really early time. I think the aesthetics led to really inexpensive sort of CPIs, cost per install. Yeah. Why? I think it was just such a clean image of a white screen with dots on it that I think that just popped in the Facebook feed. And I think it was like, I always felt like the less character a game had, the more like a wider audience could almost project whatever they wanted onto it. So it was like, maybe you won't find the most hardcore fan, but it's going to appeal to such a broader sort of audience, which you've kind of see that go down in things like catch up or there's like voodoo games, which do like these really simple games that are all sort of geometric shape driven. So I think for like that particular title, it was like awesome. And then to see that evolve into our second game, Two Dots, which was directed by David Housen, he took it in this way that I didn't really anticipate, which was more sort of character and sort of like a rich art world. Um, that I think was ultimately the right decision in hindsight. Like it, uh, I think fans from the first game who wanted a deeper gameplay, they were like hungry for a product like two dots, which had both the deeper gameplay and the sort of deeper aesthetic. And like, it was just like, uh, the right sort of mixture that i actually didn't know was going to work that well like i kind of had this idea that dots was going to remain this sort of minimalist approach um but what's been cool is like now we've sort of have this studio that can support different types of perspectives on stuff like that and is your hypothesis around CPIs true? So now CPIs are way more competitive because there's games with higher LTVs. So you need a lifetime value. Those are the acronyms you're learning. I know. It's really easy to slip and just use them all the time. So the goal is basically to get a lifetime value that's more than the cost per install. For sure. And then once you sort of dial that in you can kind of scale it um but then you start competing with other people who most likely have higher ltv games so because the sort of uh game mobile game industry has evolved so much there's like people with higher ltvs who are willing to pay much more so the competition on facebook has gotten really steep. But going back to your initial point, is that like the clean style still effective? I think it's like difficult to create high LTV games with that style. Oh. Because I think you do want like passionate niche audiences, which can be large, but they want like to sort of gravitate around a certain theme or something like that if they're going to financially invest in something. Right, so now it's about building more narrative, building bigger characters, getting people really engaged. Yeah, and I think for a lot of people that work at the studio, I think they're excited to do that. It's not just an end to the means of financial growth. It's people like narrative, and I think both working on it and sort of uh interacting with it so um it's kind of a like two birds with one stone sort of thing right right so what does that mean on the creative side right like are you turning these games out in three months now or like when you storyboard or do you even storyboard like these longer games yeah the big thing with a game like two dots is that it's it's basically a game that uh and this is kind of disseminating throughout the entire games industry um it's like games have two like multiple phases so there's sort of like pre-production where you're prototyping and pitching a game idea um then you move into production the sort of like time it takes to get it to a launchable state and then you launch it and now things have live ops which means like you're adding additional content and sort of like doing updates uh whether it's to like maintain stability or like sort of performance or to add new levels or um other sort of things to a game. So we have like a really sort of iterative or like sort of finely tuned process that makes new levels, which includes sort of either a new mechanic always include sort of new art and sort of new gameplay for players every three weeks. So there's sort of new levels added every three weeks. And then on top of that, there's weekly events that are sort of levels you can only play for that week. And if you complete them, you get sort of a medallion or sort of bonus sort of things. And so this has all sort of been, like, it evolved for... All right, give it a pause. Hey, what's up?lly's here everyone hi guys i'm back just arrived um so patrick was explaining what it meant to develop dots and then two dots and how it was different in terms of like storyboarding creating uh a game from like because his first prototype was like i don't't know, a couple weeks before you had it. Yeah. And like three months to launch. And then as because it was sort of more arcadey, the gameplay loop was pretty much like infinite. And so now we're like, two dots, it's like in a live ops operation. So like, we do releases every three weeks and like weekly events and stuff like that. Yeah. And so Holly, on your side, what did that mean at Kabam? Like in terms of game design. So early, early on when we were on Facebook, the development cycles were a lot shorter. Within about three months, we could launch a game. And that was really because I think our game mechanics were simpler even for a mid-core game. What does that mean, mid-core? Yeah, so mid-core games tend to be a little bit, like they're more engaging. Well, not more engaging, but you have to spend some more time. There's several steps. So like a mid-core game is something like, I don't know if anybody's heard of Civilization, but those are kind of like the strategy-based games where we started on. And strategy-based games are kind of like, if you have resources, you want to build those resources so that you could build your village and then ultimately and most of these things is you build these villages so that you can raise an army and go attack people it's usually there's some type of battle mechanic and a lot of our initial games um we eventually moved into like racing games or rpg games well rpgs is like a lot of role playing where you can build out a character and that you can um do something with that over time but oftentimes there was some type of attack or battling of some sorts. And so it always kind of led towards some type of, something that was quite competitive. So we got a lot of competitive players. But early on, our cycles were a bit shorter, mainly because web was a bit shorter. Also, I guess if technically it wasn't, yeah, it was three months, but there was a lot of stuff that wasn't built out when we launched. So I will say that. Like when we first did something like an MVP on Facebook, it was just trying to catch, just kind of move as fast as possible to get an MVP. We were able to build resources to build the buildings. And you could get to an army, but you could not attack. So the main part of it, we're like, it's just going to take so long for them to get to that stage. But as we moved on to mobile, the cycles just got a lot longer. To today, I mean, it takes us about probably like 18 to 24, 18 months is on the short side, like 24 months, like two years. Really? And it's partly kind of for us, and it's partly kind of for us the mechanics have gotten more involved on mobile game you couldn't just push a new code every day like you had to get submitted there's just so many things also the quality has gotten a lot higher we've moved into 3D art which is a very different setup than 2D I don't know with Dots if it's it's probably still 2D I would imagine we're like dipping our toe in the water of 3d oh we can have a discussion around that yeah yeah absolutely it's very it was very different um in terms in terms of that so so it definitely for us pushed a lot and then also on top of that we did a lot of ip licensing so that also adds time right so you got to talk to um the fox people about like, hey, does this make sense? Or the Hunger Games people with the characters. Right. So is that similar to Lego? Like you can have like massive hits if you get rights to that stuff? Oh, I think definitely for sure. How you could get massive hits. So I think I might be jumping the gun, but somebody did ask about- Yeah, growing and CPIs are reaching like $3. How do you fix this? And me and Patrick were discussing about, you know, there's just two sides to each side. It's CAC, which is cost of acquiring a customer, for those that don't know. And then CPI, which is cost per install, which is part of that. Like it's literally you have to get an install in order for them to convert into customer. So that's on one side. Um, and then the other side is what we call LTV, which is the lifetime value of the customer. And we're constant, which I'm pretty sure you guys are at dots trying to sort out like what's that LTV. Um, is it changes over time and you want to model it correctly? Um, because you just don't, the game's still live. And you're like, oh my goodness, there are people who are playing from inception. And that actually plays into kind of your average LTV. So either way, the whole trick is to get your LTV really high and your CAC low. And so what this person was asking is as your CAC gets higher and higher, it's very hard to collect that margin. So for us on our end, we saw that, that our cost of customer acquisition was just getting higher and higher yeah and i do think it's because we are what we call the mid-core game so people who maybe identify as uh gamers um and those people are not necessarily all your friends it's like watching tv it's not necessarily they're all into a certain shell um you could have friends that are you know just your friends and not everybody wanted to go you know build a farm so they can build a building like it's not something my grandma would want to play or my mom right uh whereas dots is probably so much more accessible so for us um the ip has been very helpful in reducing that cack because i don't have to explain what marvel is like i could go after the marvel fans and it's so much cheaper than just trying to get them to understand what is, you know, Edgeworld or Dragons of Atlantis. And but once we acquire that customer, their LTV does tend to be a bit higher than casual. Yeah. It's usually what we find. I think one helpful sort of way to describe the different casual, mid-core, and then there's hardcore. It's like casual, you kind of play whenever you have free time. Mid-core, you'll schedule time to play. And then hardcore, you schedule your life around playing. So hardcore game example is? World of Warcraft. Yeah, World of Warcraft. You have to set up your headphones. We've also found in our mid-core games, especially when we went to mobile, we had to make the site like uh what people could input like short enough so when they're standing in line so for us like to kick off building a building like it was almost like a setup game in some ways some pieces were super like set up and then come back and see what was the result yeah um for sure so we had to like uh adapt some of those things but you're but i think the the ones, they've gotten more adaptive in terms of like what you're saying. You don't build your life around it, but you think you're intentional about it. Especially our Marvel game, you have to, especially when you're battling, it's quite engaging. Like you're not going to just put it on auto battle or something of that sort. It's like they're trying to make it like Street Fighter for your Marvel characters. It's really what our Marvel game is. But early on, we certainly had to reduce it so that it would just be like filler time. Like it could fill your time while you're waiting in line. And I think we just found that with mobile platform. It was very hard to sit there and not think about interruptions and not think about like, I really wish I could capture World of Warcraft type. Even though we're on our phones all the time. Yeah I was going to say is like has hardcore become a thing on mobile or is that still console PC? I still think it's console PC. Yeah. I think what's interesting like happening right now is that so two games Fortnite and PUBG are like the number one games and sort of right now. And so both of those just got ported to mobile. So you can basically play against other PC players on your mobile device. They're like first-person shooter games. So I think those lines are going to blur. But right now, it's still fairly segmented. It'd be interesting to see if the porting, because I still feel like your platform does have impact on your game design yeah of course so i wonder like how they kind of adjust it for that because i haven't seen i'll be honest i haven't seen total successful first-person shooters on mobile i don't know if you i mean i think these are uh historically no fortnight like just came out last week or something yeah and it's like top 10 grossing. On the mobile store? Yeah. Oh, okay. And there you go. It'll spike and then sort of maybe die off. That's true. It's really novel right now to play this against other players on your mobile device. Okay. Well, maybe that's great. Yeah. But who knows? I'm just curious on the business side, are people always chasing these kind of new areas where they can make a little bit of money or historically it's like these mid-core games, that's where you have the cash. Yeah, what do you guys feel? Well, so for us, we were quite focused around what we were doing. So in the beginning, we didn't know what we didn't know, so we probably were a bit more open. what we were doing so in the beginning we didn't know what we didn't know so we probably were a bit more open like we were doing a casual game on facebook and then we were doing we we thought this would be great we're like hey we got this strategy game that worked really well let's just put like a theme of science fiction on it like a roman theme and uh you know call of duty type theme and all of this but like we realized that that just became very derivative in our world. It just everything was derivative in terms of players and revenue and all of that. It was just really difficult to, I think players are really smart. Humans are really smart. They, you can't just like clone something and then not have anything. That was a separate question I had about all the dots. Oh, really? Yeah, dude. so i was looking at it before it's insane but anyway yeah but i think like yeah even all the dots like i think there has to be something new outside of just theme and there were don't get me wrong there were new things for us but we also learned that uh maybe we didn't copy the right things right like it was, and that was us doing it to ourselves in some ways, right? And trying to, I mean, we definitely did open up more audience. But as time went on and the production costs of our games went higher, we had to be super thoughtful about thinking about even genres that we're going to go into. Do we even have the talent? Like, is there, is there a place in the market right now that mobile really needed to be in and they just wasn't there right now? So a great example of this would have been racing. Um, so we looked at racing as a category that came up and down on racing and we had realized that, um, that, uh, there were some early ones that were starting to attract and we're like, this is great. But at the same time, we didn't have internal talent. So that's where we found our Vancouver studio. And at the same time, we had the IP, but we're like, hey, we need the right team. So we're really focused on the right genre with the right team, everything matching together. Because it would have been disaster if our Kingdoms of Camelot team would have built a racing game because you have to get the drifting right you have to get like the starting right and getting it a mobile that kind of game design i think is fundamentally really different than from rpg or to use what we call like strategy based games and and building that so um that that certainly for us uh changed quite drastically over time along with the business environment i'm pretty sure you're probably seeing a lot of consolidation in the marketplace and uh as the person asked about cac getting higher uh we just realized every single shot on goal had to be really really good and we were pouring more money and at some point we like we tell some game designers this was like a year or two ago so it might have been, is if you're going to spend money on customer acquisition, reserve at least $5 million. That was like a year or two ago. You guys can't see, but Craig's eyes are really big right now. His eyes are like, whoo. No, that's big money. I've heard double that. Oh, okay. See, that was two years ago. So today it might be double that um because it's gotten to this person's question it's gotten so expensive wow so double that to what reach profitability on a game that took 24 months to develop is that what that's what you're saying yeah yeah like just for it to get a good shot to know that you have enough customers to see if its retention is good all of that kind of stuff in terms of getting it to get higher you wouldn't spend that much in beta so i'm not recommending you definitely for if anybody's like a game developer out there and you're starting a new game um certainly launch it in beta you could do in beta countries first that's what a lot of people do and get at least enough like a couple thousand just by a little bit so you can fix some of these bugs and And then when you're ready, that's like turning on the holes is the $10 million. That's so big time. I mean, when you think about it, like the LTV is almost like just a little bit higher than CPI. So like you're not making that much money on each acquisition. So like that's why you sort of need that big scale to like sort of profit from that launch so what is it for you guys you've talked about games that you guys prototyped internally and then never released I assume you didn't spend two years building those games I think for ours it's like three to six months dots took three months but it was very simple two dots actually took about six months some of our other prototypes it's called soft launching so you put it in the Philippines or the Netherlands. Through the App Store? Yeah. Okay. So those would take three months to get to that minimal viable product. You look at the KPIs, key performance indicators of how long people play, if they're enjoying it, those sort of things. And then you decide if it has the legs. Are there things you can tweak to change those, or is it sort of just on to the next one? Right. And so were you launching in the same way, Holly, or were you just, yeah? Yeah, so we were very similar, except for us prototyping the game took a bit longer, and then we would beta it. So I think for a mid-core studio it's very hard to kill your baby yeah um because like we've had we've had ones where um you know there was one that we had to kill and it had taken at least like 12 months and then we found like day 90 retention was horrible and it was so funny because the studio lead uh the studio president he he's like, one of the things I learned is I wish we would have released that earlier. Then we would have known that just the engine was broken. They thought the engine would be really good. And then if you just like a day 90, the retention was so bad. And like, he's like, well, if I release that 30 months or like three months earlier, I could have taken that learnings to the next game that we were building. So yeah, Patrick mentioned Minecraft, like basically being released before it was done. Did you guys enter that territory as well? Like are mobile game developers doing this kind of thing? So for us, like definitely early on, on the web, like our first game, we launched it before it was done. We all cannot probably get away with something that's quote-unquote not done, but we certainly can, what we call an elder game, like maybe not release that portion of it until later because we know it takes some time. But the cycles, I will say that, I think you guys probably see this as well, is on mobile, what we call consuming content happens so much faster so that means like when you release a game just don't have just like 10 levels like you need like an order of magnitude larger than that because you'll be surprised how much people just eat up while they're waiting like it's just surprised i don't know how many levels you're like you have to launch with this many i don't remember with us yeah i mean i, I think we learned it the really hard way. Like we launched Two Dots with 85, which is like, seems like an okay amount, but we had such good, like such a good sort of organic launch, like people telling their friends that we were sort of scrambling to add more levels because people were going through that so quickly. That's insane to yeah why probably i wouldn't be surprised because dots is like you just keep playing because you don't want to make it exponentially more difficult otherwise they bounce um what do you mean so like you say all right so you launch with 85 levels but what if at level 50 it becomes so hard that like each level takes progressively longer right that's no good yeah so then you'll get people churning out um and just sort of like abandoning the game forever really so we look at like really granular sort of win rates per level and sort of see how because you also want you do want that sort of like nice difficulty curve that does sort of ebb and flow that is just always getting more difficult um so you do want like levels that are challenging but you do want to sort of make sure that they're not too difficult that just make people sort of quit. Yeah. That's right. I mean, ours is very similar, except for we don't have a straight level mechanic system. We have other kind of things that kick off as well. So for us, when we think about elder game or later game, it's not just level mechanics that make it maybe harder to win a battle. later game it's not just level mechanics that make it maybe harder to win a battle but it might be at that point what is it that you unlock that's meaningful for say like your character or your team so that's kind of you you do have to think about a bit of the elder game because those guys are your rabid fans like your rabid customers your really loyal customers and you want to keep them around because they actually help bring in others one of the things that's a bit unique about almost every, I think every one of our games, yes, every one of our games is we have social features of alliance as well as like chat and those types of customers that are loyal and, you know, play every single day or get to those later levels end up becoming almost like the social, they recruit people for their lines. They're usually like the alliance leaders are the ones that are like highly retaining and very valuable to bring on other players. So you do have to take good care and think about that because we are also somewhat managing a community in many ways. Each one of our games has a community. Which is challenging when you're building a portfolio of games, right? Because you're like, oh man, racing is sexy right now, except this person doing a first-person shooter doesn't care about racing. So how do you build your community from that, right? Ours was very bottoms up. And partly we've had licensed IPs to help keep the CAC down so we could go after Fast and Furious fans versus Marvel fans. And almost every game had its own community manager as well because at that point we realized like what was six like what that fan cared about was probably different than what a first-person shooter fan cared about um so that was that's certainly something that where we um we we do have and because we have less games like we we've only end up launching like two to four a year before we exited that it's like it's very very minimal in that way okay so that was that's something i think as you if you are a larger portfolio then you have to think about centralizing and thinking about the community a little bit different. But we certainly would have individual, like every game would have somebody that would help the community. They would either be called a live operations person that would do some community stuff, feedback what's happening, and they would cross with our customer service department in many ways, which we call player experience. So ours was a little bit different in that way. But as we got just fewer shots on goal it was very very focused each one was an independent studio in many ways yeah like big question we're asking with every new sort of pitch that comes now is like would you be excited to work on this for like five years because like you have to sort of think about them now as these sort of projects that's right sort of long-term franchises is like what we used to talk about. It's like we're building franchises. And really, I think our... I don't know if your monetization model is very similar. Ours is what we call free-to-play. So the user can download it for free. And if there's something, like maybe they'll want to buy a sword or they want to do something maybe faster, they will pay money. So it's our end users are actually our customers. So one of the things we'd always liken ourselves to a lot more is a games as a service, and be very much like TV shows, movies versus TV. So things didn't have to be like, if you think about console games, or premiumbased games, they have to think of the whole thing and then they market it because the way they monetize, as a player, you pay them the money up front and then that's about it. And even for those that don't know this, but any gamer would know this, is like if you buy a disc, like an Xbox disc from the store, once you open it, you cannot return it. It's just like movies. like once you go to the movies and you didn't like that movie too bad like they're not going to give your money back right but with tv it's very different you know you you think about content episodes you think about like earning the like you think about audience you think about earning it you think about it as a service in some ways and if you if you actually see um kind of the it was really interesting when we pulled some graph from the Simpsons and their viewership. And you just see this long tail of retention, like over time. And it's very different than like movies. You see Star Wars and it's a peak and then it goes down and you have to wait for the next Star Wars movies. And it's time over time. But we're thinking about like long-term like TV franchises, like keeping our players around like day after day, week after week is something that we thought about a lot and it had to do a lot how we monetized. Are there different learnings that you guys see indie game developers take? Because all of this stuff is just like big, massive scale, you know, $5 million budget minimum. Like that's insane. Like how do indie developers handle this? Because like that's still like how do indie how do indie developers handle this because like they're that's still a pretty big community right yeah i think on the like pc console side or more pc steam um it's like they are starting to develop in the open so something like minecraft was like in development but people could basically buy it before it was done um but they were opting into this sort of tolerance for bugs and like sort of weird behavior in the game. I think because they were sort of excited to be sort of along for that ride of the development. So you see that a lot with, I think, smaller studios, like five to 10 people sort of pre-selling the game almost before it's ready. And that helps them sort of like bug test it for like a profit. And then just like also building that community that's going to be their sort of champions when they do launch. And you see some actually startups that support like individual game developers. There's this one called Fig, which is like Kickstarter for indie game developers that started by the Double Fine guys. And usually I find whenever I think such an amazing core to indie is the passion and the craft that they put in there. And that I think that that does not get overlooked when they're building a game. And I think the idea that they can build like a rapid fan base from the get go from the indie world is something that's super special. I do, because I do think that, um, they leverage kind of their reputation from someplace like they were worked on this game and these followers tend to follow them, which is that works very well for premium games, I guess you'd say, um, free to play. It's still kind of working as kinks, but like it's starting that culture when you see, when you kind of see how the games have developed on mobile like there's just such high quality now like supercell kicked it up a notch all of these things that i think the quality that usually comes out of indie studios um can match that in many many ways so i do want to i do think that there is it's just such a tough environment i will be honest about that it's tough tough business environment out there but i think with places like steam um humble bundle like there's just still people who are like rabid fans on of that stuff right but so on the acquisition side they kind of have to employ different tactics because they can't keep up with you well yeah but i also think like nowadays it's not even smart even if you have a big budgets i wouldn't spend it all on customer acquisition. You're just not going to get like paying for your buck. So you also find folks like us that went after the Marvel fans. So we have to go individual, like start focusing on that community and building that community. Places like Fig are a great way to like start building that. You know, like how Kickstarter does that, right? Is building your fan base and then um getting it into social media so influencers have been become very powerful um there's been other gaming companies that obviously have dabbled in um you and ourselves commercials which which do help i wouldn't recommend that for you um but you just see all i'm saying skywriting no words yeah i mean all i'm saying is you just see uh because of the pressures of of just straight, like paid acquisition, is the pressures are so high on there. That's when you see things move more towards organic because you're always trying to reduce the cost of customer acquisition. Like either raise your LTV or lower your CAC. One of the two. And platforms can also be helpful there. Oh, that's right. That's a great point. Apple is doing a great job now showcasing those indie developers and both their games but also the individuals behind them. And so they're doing profiles of really small developers and I think the work that they're doing well. That's a really good point, yeah. Apple's done a great job supporting indie developers. How has Twitch affected game development? Or has it affected it at all? Like, are there certain games that are just more fun to watch someone stream and therefore that's like a growth strategy? Or is it just kind of, you know, it's a popular game. A lot of people stream it. That's whatever. I think games that have like emergent behavior. So like something like Minecraft where it's almost like the random chaos of things happening creates this narrative that's almost like fun to watch. Creates of things happening creates this narrative that's almost like fun to watch uh creates like a longer term sales cycle for a game so it's less spiky sort of like the movies and then it is sort of starting to like almost grow over time if you do have a game like that that is really fun to watch yeah so i'll be honest i don't think i've found a mobile game yet that has been interesting enough to stream. It's always been reversed, I feel like. Things on Steam or Activision Blizzard with Overwatch, all these other things have all been downloadable, big MMO, massively multiplayer environments. I just haven't seen that. So I definitely know that people are trying to crack this, like Vainglory. They're trying to basically make a game on mobile that's for esports. And I think the first hurdle you have to have to jump over is, is it a successful mobile game? And I just haven't seen that yet. There might be some interesting stuff. I think they're streaming more. I don't know. You guys might know more. stuff i i think they're streaming more i don't know you guys might know more streaming more stuff on about clash uh as well as like uh battle like the the battle card game that they have hearthstone yeah uh hearthstone so those are probably closer yeah actually hearthstone is probably yeah but first it was i feel like first it was a successful mobile game yeah and then it got streamed versus uh the other way around where i it's yet to be seen, but it's not to say that it can't happen, that, hey, it's not that successful on mobile yet, but the streaming has caused it to be successful on mobile. This might be happening with PUBG. PUBG is super successful as a game as well as really friendly to watch. That's an exciting, interesting thing you do want to watch. And if it's Topghost Ammo, this might be one of those, a great example where it's because it's a great e-sports game, a good game, great to watch, and pushes it over to the side. That might be one. Yeah, I think Supercell is a good example. So they are somebody who does kill a lot of projects, famously. And it's because they have such a high bar to meet. So it's interesting to see now, I think one of their games that they're in test markets with is called Brawl Stars. And you see them trying to make that into this eSport before it's even readily available everywhere. And I think it's because they are trying to hit this insanely high bar. So they're trying to make sure that that uh can like like supersede everything that they've done before yeah yeah that makes sense so they're trying to employ that tactic like really early on yeah what other things do you see happening in the future you know like people have talked about like uh collectibles like crypto related stuff like vr like do you in in the near term like games in development right now where do you see things getting traction so i i still think esports esports has so many like eyeballs yeah i think more and more are just i think that's just gonna be a natural like oh this needs to be like a great game that's viewable not only a great game but also viewable vr is kind of interesting because it's like i've i've always felt like it has a lot of capital like a lot of like buzz around it but not enough traction and there's a little bit around that with like ar with some people that have done the glasses it's just lots of money lots of cash lots of buzz but not enough like traction and i kind of i do feel like for vr for it to hit right now it's just all the everything's not accessible like it still can be more accessible and um i do think that ar will be kind of like this jump into it like i think pokemon go did a really nice job of introducing ar um i do think that they Apple and Google are all supporting that platform. So I can see it a bit more, especially as you see successful games from a business perspective, as well as people loving it go on there. I can see that one in the near term. Blockchain games. I think that blockchain games are kind of a little bit currently suffering from the VR type world. There's a lot of heat. There's a lot of excitement around it. And you can make some great cash like CryptoKitties. But I think they only drove like 100,000 downloads of MetaMask. And that's what you need in order to get on the block. There's just so many things. It's almost like back in the day with the internet, you needed your modem. You needed somebody to not be on the phone, do not call. You needed a special line. Everything had to get set up just right. However, I do think with crypto, there's so much buzz around it. There's also a lot of capital. I think it might be a short because mainly software to make those things accessible to kind of like get on it might might actually uh be a lot easier in my mind if you're just talking about like the ux and the accessibility and then therefore that encourages more people to be able to play it yeah more players and more more like developers developing on there um and playing the game but like at the end of the day you still have to make a good game right like most people don't care about like how the internet ends up on my iPhone, let alone how my iPhone works. But if nobody can even understand how to play your game, like get to that point, then like nobody knows. And even I think the ones on there right now are very interesting. They're like the first games, I'll be honest, that we saw on Facebook, like Crypto Kitties uh crypto celebs i was like oh yeah we had that game friends for sale and now we're just selling like celebrities and it's just like a very simple mechanic yeah and you'll probably see that early on and then i definitely know i'm sure there's game developers working on something that's much more in depth than what what can the blockchain be used for that technology i think i think's interesting. It's always in my world, gaming definitely pushes those types of technologies forward or at least test those boundaries of how far can it go. And I'm always encouraging, I think in the blockchain world and with crypto, what better people to really explore this than people know how to create virtual worlds. They're okay with virtual economies. I remember at one point, one of my co-founders said this about our CEO because he loves playing games. He was like, yeah, he was spending like real money to buy this fake currency. And I was like, yeah, that's just like crypto. And it's not fake, but it's like virtual currency because you're giving an experience like this is why gaming is considered entertainment. You're paying for entertainment. So those are my long two cents. Make that 20 cents. Yeah. I heard another pitch recently about sort of back to like the idea that once you buy a game, you can't really resell it. But like with something like blockchain, maybe there is sort of opportunities to transfer ownership of either goods or like titles. So that there could be interesting applications like that. but I totally agree if a player has to understand how that system works, it's going to be difficult to sell. But if it does become sort of this invisible sort of underlying thing, maybe. Yeah, it's very confusing right now. Very confusing. You have to get out of the blockchain. It's like, what? There's three networks? And your public key, private key, seed? Oh, yeah. Well, especially with something like MetaMask where you're like, oh, this is great. If you have someone over your shoulder saying like, okay, no, don't do that. This is how it works. That's what it's like. I'm just going to send someone $1,000 right now. Yeah, exactly. I just said something the wrong thing. Let's get some of the Twitter questions so David Trudeau had a question for you Patrick what kind of role did psychology play in making all the dots games so addictive I think it definitely wasn't a like design to be addictive but I think the methodology with which it was developed facilitated that so basically what I would do is like sit down every day and like think about what I wanted to like change or add to the game and once I found myself more fascinated by like playing it than the like metagame of making games, I knew there was like something working there. So I like just found myself, Oh wow. I just spent 10 minutes playing the prototype. I should be working. Um, but it, it was like that sign that the thing was working and like, maybe you didn't really have to add much more huh um so then i kind of stripped stuff out and just made it that like core experience shine and then all the games we've put out so far have been built on that sort of core functionality yeah um so i think that's what's been like yeah foundational for the type of games we put out so far um same for you holly like basically try it until you find a mechanism that's addictive and then you just keep it? Yeah. Well, I think a little bit. With casual games, there's a little bit of great time for iteration. So for us, our game loops have to be a little bit more fleshed out. And like I said, we have to stick it out for 90 days at least to see what the day 90 retention is like. Because I feel like Dots, what's so great like you have this core mechanic that you can play over and over again and then like you might just change a couple of things but for us like the core mechanic it's it does get like a little bit iterated on and definitely in beta we would we would probably kind of change but you there's definitely less iteration like a lot more kind of discussion, discussion, and then throw it out there. So it's, it's a little bit, uh, I wish, I wish there was a way to be able to do it, but, but there's so many things that happen in a mid court game that trigger all these other things. That's very hard to like test just one piece of it without the full context of the game to say like, okay context of the game to say like okay is this thing compelling because it could actually be something else so in reality we've actually built like three or four loops of like just that that's it is it is what is one of the things we do try to do on de-risking i will say this is like uh we definitely taught like we had focus groups we had a whole team called consumer insights and he would inform well his team would inform things like not just genres but even things like some features in the game so try to collect trying to collect that kind of stuff early on but it this is where it became well we'd like to say it became a much more closer to premium cable television shows like game of thrones where it's like just this high production but on tv but you have to like think about like, where does the character development go? You can't just like kind of throw it out or like, it can't be like a soap opera. Well, all of a sudden like the twin is dead, but they actually came back alive. It just can't be that way where, you know, it's, it's, it just, it has to just have like a lot more. And so you you so this is why uh we started moving a lot of our game designer stuff like some of them had like 10 years of experience on just racing alone yeah uh to make our fast and furious game and that's kind of what was needed yeah it just got much more specialized cool so uh another twitter question hexel asked uh how can you predict what will be a successful game we kind of talked about that the second part of their question is how do you predict what will be a successful game? We kind of talked about that. The second part of their question is, how do you come up with game ideas? Yeah. Interesting. I don't know. I guess there's a bunch of different ways to do it. I think for, so for Dots, it was like definitely driven by what I wanted it to look like. And the sort of gameplay fell out of that. So it was like, okay, I want this grid to like look this sort of way and just sort of what naturally did I then want to do? So I think actually to the like former questions, like the psychology of just connecting dots is like something kind of ingrained in us as like kids or humans. I don't know. So just that simple act is like really easy to pick up. And then so like if you think of it sort of concentric rings, if that's the thing you're doing every second, then what do you do in every 10 seconds or minute or week or month? And then sort of creating features that accommodate for those different sort of time scales. I know the sort of Nintendo preaches sort of like taking hobbies and turning those into games. So things that people naturally want to do and sort of gamifying those. Yeah. I think at dots we're like really heavily driven by the aesthetic sort of inspiration that we find. Yeah. I was, I think ours was driven a bit more by like consumer insights. Yeah. Yeah. Ours is very like very purposeful and like super, like things had to be super strategic. So it was a little bit harder. We had to ask people that were hiring, same thing, you're going to be on this genre. It's going to be hard to swap genres once you're on here. You need to really love racing games. You really need to love RPG. Do you love Marvel? As Marvel's been around for a couple years and even some of our older games there's still people playing it like today even the ones on facebook so wow it's like that's just so when someone's just getting into the gaming industry or if they were to get into it right now like what do you advise them like start your own company start your own game and apply it okay no no not start your own company right well i guess if you have the revenue like if you have the means like because uh the thing with gaming is it can be lucrative to where you could bootstrap it right so anything that can generate revenue pretty quickly i guess you say if you have the means go ahead and bootstrap that it's probably going to be the best way you're going to learn yeah is actually just do it. But I do think if you're like kind of cash constrained, it really depends on like what area you want to get into gaming. Like if you want to be a game designer, I think it's great to go work at a gaming studio. That's always really good. If you are a student and you don't have that means yet and you can't intern or whatnot, I think it's great to just even try to start designing your own game because you'll learn so much about it and there's all these like fun um things you could do old school like starting like to paper prototype some things if you even wanted to um but like if you're i do think um going trying to get into a gaming studio is really good. It's a very, I feel like it's still very apprenticeship in many ways. It just takes such a long time. Yeah. Yeah, maybe I think if you are sort of, you find yourself sort of in a vacuum and not sure where to start, I think tools like Unity are really accessible to like sort of like the access to a game engine is now accessible to most people. And then I think also modifying games has become more of a sort of cultural thing. So yeah, I think on Steam, there's a sort of big sub-genre of modifications to games. So games that are designed to be modified and sort of have a game designer just sort of add new rule sets to the games. So that's like a good way. That's relatively low cost or low barrier to entry. Paper prototypes for sure. I think having work that you can show at least that you've started and got over the initial hump of just trying something yourself goes a long way. So that would, in other words, differentiate someone because you guys have both interviewed people for these kinds of jobs. Like if they showed that they had made something or like forked something in a cool way. Oh, yeah, for sure. Definitely an engineer, game design of some sorts. Okay. So let's assume that someone is crazy enough to start their own game, like their own studio, whatever. What are the biggest mistakes you guys have made that you would advise them to avoid? Raise enough money not just for one game, but two or three, because you're never, like, your first one likelihood will not be a hit. What's a ballpark number? Well, we already know it's like, well, it depends. Are you on mobile? I guess if you go on PC, it's probably cheaper for customer acquisition costs. I don't know. Something like Roblox has been really interesting in terms of opening up a development platform for kids and also being able to push other users to it. I mean, they've been doing some pretty crazy stuff on that. Not mistake, but the challenge we're facing now i think is like super common i think you've described like what we're facing it's like that we people want to be working on different stuff it's like yeah it's like the business side is like all about de-riskifying and i think like creativity i like creativity inherently is about creatingifying and I think like creativity I like that word. Creativity inherently is about creating risk and so it's like the dichotomy of those two things if it's not balanced right. So true. At one time we had a hackathon but it was like only things that you could do on the game. So it's kind of like what's like usually a hackathon is like something more open and I'm sure people will crave more. Even I would have like, I don't know, guys. I mean, they still like hacked and some people wanted to try all these things. Like I've been wanting to fix this thing. It's been broken. But usually people did. We've tried to do things like open submissions of game ideas. But we had the thing is, is like we needed to give people like a business case and some people didn't have enough business case and there were at the end of the day we had set up some type of submission it was only like three people that really did end up sitting right so this is like we're already like a couple hundred people already so we're like hmm do you really want to they say this but do they really want it um and then the other thing what what we could have done which i think would have been much more streamlined is if like uh at one point there was someone who really pushed for like a particular theme type game i should have went through consumer insights because it was super clear that like that type of theme did not work with that type of genre so that's that's yeah that was something we really cared a lot about which also for ip uh this might be a side tidbit but um ip uh we cared a lot about what fit like would it fit one of the genres that we've done so for example um star wars um you know we had we had conversations with him early on but all we had was like a strategy engine. Like, does it make sense? And, um, later we had like a different engine. We're like, okay, this, this probably makes sense. Or like, uh, the Hobbit or something like that. The Hobbit, like, does it make sense? We only have this type of engine. Like, would it make sense to put racing on with Hobbit? Hobbit racing game. Yeah, maybe not. Uh, all right. my last question uh what's your favorite game that you have not made not made i love candy crush i really love candy crush classics i love that one i was like this is like brilliant because i love like i love bejeweled obviously dots i love dots too but like i really like candy i spent so. I've spent a lot of time on there. I've spent. The threes, that game? Yeah. I think it's just like head to toe really impressive and like an interesting story if you like know the ins and outs of sort of what happened. They basically got cloned and 2048 became the sort of ubiquitous version of their game basically um yeah which is like this really like a tragic story of like a like really amazing product that was like cost three dollars but the market wasn't willing to pay for that so like the free version just like became this thing that a small studio sort of like i don't know like launched basically with this clone i forgot to ask you how do you deal with clones so we have like a lawyer that like oh but people still fork it and like put dots in the title it's like crazy dots whatever yeah they're also like uh candy dots 20, like the string of these like key phrases that are just so transparently like trying to, I don't know. It must be harder. I think in casual world, it's much easier to clone. I think also dots like tracks people that are like, that looks so simple. I could do that. And like, do it. It's much harder underneath. Oh man. All right. Well, thanks for coming in, guys. Thank you. Thanks, Greg.