 I think many people kind of know about Paystack, but can you give us the one-line explanation? Yeah, we're a payments company. We help merchants in Africa accept payments from their customers. So businesses will connect to Paystack, and almost immediately the customers can pay them with credit cards, debit cards, and different payment methods. I know you said one-line description. No, that was a perfect description. We're currently live in Nigeria and we're trying to just go into other markets very quickly. Nice. And how long have you guys been around? We launched in January 2016. Okay. And so before that, you were also a founder, right? Yes, yes, yes. I can take it back a little. Yeah, I think you should. So yeah, I grew up in Lagos, grew up in Lagos, Nigeria. I've spent all my life there actually. After college, I studied computer science. After college, I worked with Heineken, the bear company. I did it for two years. And then I left. I left because I thought I was, I just thought I should be, I'm a maker, I should be making things. Okay. Were you, were you pushing code at Heineken? No, no, no, no. I was a management trainee. Oh, okay. Exactly. Oh man, okay. So, so I wrote with my co-founder then, Maiwa. We taught Dropbox, that was 2007, 2008. We taught Dropbox was cloud and cloud in emerging markets like was, was a good concept. I don't know. I was naive, I think. And so we said, what if someone builds a Dropbox on-premise that people, you don't need cloud. You don't need broadband and all that. So we did it. We called it Picurio. We put it up on SourceForge. SourceForge was very big then. And I think it went well. We had over 200,000 companies using it. It was available in six languages. So it went very well. I did that for about five years. And then banks in Nigeria started reaching out to me to help them build software. So I built software for about three banks and quickly I said, you know what, this payments, like I always knew the state of payments wasn't where it should be, but I didn't think it was going to be me. So, but just working with the banks, just, I don't know, I just figured, you know, if there's someone that can figure out payments, it probably will be me because I built world class software before. And now I just have access. I understand how the financial system works. So started Paystack very quickly um spent about one year just doing the underground work um had a wait list of about 300 customers and i was calling all of them just talking through what they wanted and building for them um and then one day one of my friends actually um sent an email copied all the yc factors it was it was late because nigeria is nine hours i think it was nine hours ahead or eight hours. So it was about 1 a.m. I saw that email and said, hey YC, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is Paystack. I just sent that email and copied all, everybody, Sam, Michael, everybody. And I'm like, what is this? And then, then well like I slept and then I woke up in the morning and Michael had responded Michael Sibyl and said hey shut up tell me more about pay stack like whoa so I spent about five hours trying to compose the best the best email ever which worked because Michael responded with another one line so we had back and forth. They asked me to apply. I applied for YC Fellowship and I didn't get in actually. I think it was August. So immediately they asked me to apply again for the YC. I think it was October. So I applied. Thankfully I got in. We became the first Nigerian company to get into YC. Now I think there are over 10 other companies that I've gotten in just two years, which is really amazing and exciting. Yeah, and we launched FaceTag and it's grown so fast since we launched. And you guys just raised again. Yes, yes. We just raised a series A, a million dollars from Stripe and Visa. So yeah. Congrats. Thank you. So I think a lot of people are curious, who are probably from Africa, about what your YC application looked like. Yes, yes. What were your stats? What were your metrics? And that was the first thing I released, because people, I honestly, when I started my first company, my Akanews profile, I think I opened it in 2008 or 2007. So I actually applied for YC then too, but I didn't expect to get into it. With your hosted Dropbox? Yes, exactly. Oh man, I should have looked that up. Please do. So like, I didn't expect to get into, because there was no reference, like why would a Nigerian company get into YC? But very quickly, I realized that the YC structure is actually optimized for just finding the best companies, you know? So, um, so my application was very simple. On the interview day, I actually remember, um, they asked us how much, um, had we processed that month. I said, $200. Like I said, it's shamefully, uh, and it didn't matter, you know? Um, now last month we did over $20 million. That's just three years. But I think our application was really simple. It was just clear. I just wanted to say what we were. And what you're building right now, is it basically identical to what Paystack, with the application for Paystack was? Exactly. Nothing has changed. Really? Yes, yes. It's the same vision. We knew payments was broken. I think it's still broken, but I think we've made a lot of progress just trying to figure it out. Yeah. And how did you meet Ezra? Oh, we went to school together. We went to Babcock University together. Okay. After school, we lived together. He had worked on a payments company, actually, that didn't work out. So when I wanted to do payments, it was obvious I had to call Ezra Black. So you just built a prototype and pitched him? No, no, no. I built it. I actually built it. I had customers. And while I was engaging, I told you of the back and forth with Michael. Yeah, yeah. So one of the back and forths, Michael was saying, who else was working with me on the project? So I talk about Ezra and a few people, and I'm like, you know what, is there someone that really, that you can take along with you on this journey? And I was like, yeah, Deja off. I'm like, Deja, this makes sense. Let's do this together. And he was like, yeah, all right. Of course. I didn't even wait for an answer. So it sounded very obvious. Wow, okay. And I think it was a very good decision because, yeah, just having two people connected with the same vision, just building this, we started moving faster and things just started getting better and so you when you arrived so you were in the winter 2016 yes when you arrived in January I guess you did your interview in November exactly exactly yeah it was fun it's my favorite story every time I talk about the Paystack story I talk about the interview day because we got into YC. We wanted to just see what was happening. So we came in a day earlier and just came in to see what was happening. The first company I saw was someone just building a kind of shed that never gets dirty. It showed us it had like dirty water. I don't know if they got into YC. It had a white shed for the water the water they didn't get that they're like wow I saw um two ladies I saw no health too um I think they're going into YC they were building a bra um that detects um breast cancer you know like it's cool stuff yeah it's impressive and people were asking us what are you guys building like oh we're building parents some of these tribe builds eight years ago but it was fascinating for people and people were like wow this is amazing obviously there's so many people in Africa there's a lot of transactions happening if there's any team trying to figure out payments there I want to be their friend you know so we were really excited I got at least two emails the night before interview from people I met saying they thought we were building something cool. So it was really good. The next morning, just coming into the interview, we were a bit more confident. What were the interview questions? Were they saying things like, why won't Stripe build this? It was very fast. I came on. We got on a very long flight i think it was about 22 hours just from lagos to um to san francisco and i wrote out like my notes i think i crammed everything but i only practiced it was just the first line as i just got it like hey tell us what are you guys working on like we're working on pay stack uh it's uh we it's a payments company we've made a huge leap over what currently exists um it used to be about seven steps before it's now two steps and they're like show us like oh so i had to just pull out a laptop we showed them like wow this is interesting um so and i forgot all my all my talking words so it went very fast um yeah but it went well i think um the i remember also the access why we were not live uh we said we just had a wait list we were worried about fraud um and all that and they said you know um they don't think we should put an artificial barrier to growth. If we're growing, if people want it, then open it up. Yeah. Like, okay. And that's why I thought like that might have been a problem, but it didn't matter. And then we got a call in the evening asking if we wanted a white city. It's like, of course. Yeah, it was very exciting actually. Man. And then, so what was it like when you, I mean, I don't know nearly as much as you do about the Nigerian startup scene, but like when you were just thrown in with everyone else in January? No, it was fun. So YC is pretty much international. For sure. I think a lot of people don't recognize that, but we didn't feel out of place. Actually, I thought I was going to have a problem. No, we got in, we met people from Ghana working on. I think she's from Chicago. Well, like she's originally from Ghana. So there's a lot of diversity in YC. So we didn't feel any. Okay. And so then what, are there substantial in in any element of the startup scene in nigeria hmm i think a lot yeah um i think um one of the things we just saw quickly was just the i'll say i don't want to say the age but i think in nigeria oh well when i, when I was starting up, the kind of people that were building cool stuff were really like in their 30s and their 40s and their 50s. So just coming here and seeing young people just doing amazing stuff, young people that had done amazing stuff eight years ago. I remember Justin Khan, for example. I remember watching justin tv you know and just seeing him about 12 or 12 years of 10 years later i still have wife is still looking young i'm like wow everybody's so young you know so i was really shocked at how much um how young everyone was um how connected everyone was. So that was shocking. I think the other thing is also just the, I like to say, just the quality of the advice, you know, or the, you know, things are not as intuitive as they should be. Like how they say, that's my favorite, like, oh, I see. That's the first thing I picked up. One of the first few things I picked up one of the first few things i picked up like the startups founders think they want to be the way to network like the way to get out there is to network and just be everywhere you know but the way to build a strong network is to build something impressive you know and just learning that very quickly made me focus yes heads down you know and it was. Now I feel like I know people I need to know without having to just be everywhere. That was me in college. I was like, oh man, how do I meet all these people? Exactly. I was asking like, you know, the handful of impressive people that I met and they're just like, don't worry about it. Just make cool stuff. Exactly, exactly. Also, I think the long-term view is also very helpful, which helped me. I think I remember a conversation I had, I think it was Michael too, just asking about what, like what this would look like. And he said, it takes about seven years to build a solid startup anyway. So you're going to have to do it for a long time. And so that was really refreshing for me to say, you know, I'm not going to make it in one month. Like, no pressure. Let's just do it every year. This is our third year now, you know? So, and I'm looking forward to the next four years. Yeah. What does the payments market look like in Nigeria? Like, how much is cash? How much is card? How does it go? It's a lot of cash. So I would say Nigeria's GDP is about $500 billion. Okay. Consumer spending is about $150 billion. Okay. And the population is like 200 million? About 200 million. Yeah. But just less than 2% of consumer spending spent for cards, you know, and even more, a lot of that is just people using their cards at the ATM to get cash out so they can spend it. So, yeah. So I think it's still very, very early. Yeah. There's a lot of transactions happening. Most of them are still happening offline but online transactions are kicking off new business models have been created and it's getting obvious that digital payments will win so there's a company called by power i think the nyc to the selling electricity online and the use-based act. Before now, before them, you would have had to go buy electricity like at a store. But if your electricity goes off at 9 PM on a Friday night, then you have to wait till Monday morning. That doesn't make sense. So, but just the fact that you can pay digitally means you can always have electricity. And the multiple business models like that, making it very easy for people to do things. So I think, and people are realizing this, smartphone adoption is increasing, mobile penetration is increasing, you know, so I think it's a good time. It was really a good time. Everything is picking up and we're just there, just trying to connect the consumers with the merchants and remove all the friction because i think and just to say why paystack is extremely interesting i think before now a lot of the payments infrastructure was built for enterprise companies and of course enterprise companies like complexity i don't know why um so just detangling all that and just keeping things simple um it was the first thing we had to do make it easy for businesses accepting payments figure out the cards infrastructure understand why things are why they are um and doing all that so yeah and in terms of your growth are you are you trying to incentivize more businesses to pay to figure out a card system? Like what do you do? So I will say we've been overwhelmed. Like we haven't, since we launched Space, like that day January 11th, I can't forget the day. January 16th. It's been like, we've not had time to even think. But a few things we were doing very well. Number one, we know that we see these transactions, we see what is missing, we see what's wrong. So we think the first thing to do is to make sure that transactions can happen, transactions can be successful, which we're doing. The next thing is also just ensuring that the customer experience is good enough. If someone is trying to pay, we have to make that payment happen as soon as it can. If someone has a dispute, we have to figure it out. So we started building, we're the first company, I think we're still the only company that has like an automated dispute process and all that. So because everything is connected, we tell ourselves that if someone has a problem with a transaction, that's someone that will never trust digital payments again. So we don't take it lightly. We try our best to make sure we can make it work. So yeah. So I would say in the short term, half of our strategy is just making it work. That's a good tip for every product. The other half is building a community around our merchants. We think the ideal Paystack merchant, we know why people are using Paystack. We know people want to start and scale businesses. So how can we help them do this? We know just having a community, helping them with tools, with content, with events. Last month we had an event with Facebook just teaching people how to sell on Instagram. And that's on one hand. We have multiple things we do in the community. So yeah, it's really make it work and build a community around the businesses so that it will be easy for people to start and scale their businesses okay is there an average type of business that you guys are yes now no because we have little um like we have people just starting out people building side projects okay on one hand on the other hand we have airlines the other hand, we have airlines. You remember the airline? We have tax collections. We have bus tickets. So we have the... I think that's the beauty of payments. Everybody is affected. And in fact, the bigger you are, the bigger the pain. So it's exciting. Man. So in terms of your, it's exciting. Man. And so in terms of your growth over the past few years, were there particular features that made a big impact in your growth rate? I wouldn't say so. I think it's still the same, just making it work. And even our customers have been growing themselves. So when I was doing the fundraisers, I had time to look at the data. Yeah, of course. I saw that the first cohort that launched in Q1 2016, by Q4 2017, they were doing 30X their volumes. You know, I was even the lowest because other cohorts are even growing faster. You know, so like the businesses themselves are early. Yeah. And so, and everybody's growing at the same time. So I think it's really exciting. Wow. So man, when it comes to like expanding to other countries in Africa, I assume. No, definitely Africa. Definitely Africa. Okay. Do you just assume that their economies function in similar ways to Nigeria's or do you have to get someone on the ground to figure it all out? How do you do it? Oh, I think it's two ways. So the first part is every day we get people just ping us and say, when are you coming to Ghana? When are you coming to Morocco? When are you coming here? So there's that. And there's that. And there's the fact that we knew that this problem is like continent wide and we know what we've built can work because payments is really simple. Well, I hope. Well, like the way we think about pay stack, it's like a full stack payments. What happens before the payments? What happens during the payments and after? So we've spent a lot of time thinking about this and these things work the same way in these markets you know the part that just changes is the local context but i will admit that africa is really really interesting my favorite expansion story i used to be very excited that you know we're just going to scale across africa and then there was an opportunity to go to egypt cairo actually and we got to cairo and with my friend we got to Cairo and me and my friend, we got to the airport. We called an Uber, I think. I think it was Uber or Karim. And then it occurred to us that the Uber, the plate number was in Arabic. Oh no. The cars are in Arabic. I can't read Arabic. I can't tell which is my Uber. So it was like, oh yeah, I'm not going to be the one to launch this. Like, yeah, you know, so that was really exciting to hear. But like you said, I think finding the right people to help us figure this out will be very helpful. That's one of the reasons why in just thinking about our series A, we had to think about companies that have figured out skill. Companies like Stripe, companies like Visa. If there's a company, the companies that have thought about moving payments from one place to another, it's these companies. And so we're like, really, really going to have to learn how to do this in another country. Yeah. But we've made a lot of progress with Ghana, which is really close to Nigeria. But I think as we go to other countries, it would even be more difficult. But the good thing is we understand this. We're ready to learn. We're ready for the challenge. This is why we created the company. And that is why when people say, oh, why wouldn't an international company just come to Africa? Because it's very difficult. This local context is difficult. And it really takes a team that believes that this is why they're here. This is why we created the company. So yeah, so we're really willing to do the work. And hopefully we'll see what will come out. So when it comes to scaling up like what does your team look like you know are you hiring people exclusively from visa or what do you do so let's like talking about team that's like my greatest problem now i'm like i used to read a lot about when this was the ce's work, always be hiring and all that. Like I didn't realize that. I used to wonder like, why would the CEO like be trying to hire? But now it's so like, that's the only thing in my head. So I will say right now we have about 36 people. This time last year probably was about 15. Two years ago it was about five. So it's been very interesting. We have so many problems being thrown at us like across all corners. Right now I'm actively looking for senior engineers to help us figure some of these things out. I think it's a typical thing that happens in a startup where you don't really optimize for so far down. You've built it, but now you're having like millions and millions of records in your DB and you're wondering, should I switch it? But you can't even switch because the more problems coming, you know? So like, and there's still more things to build, everything. So it takes some skill and some experience to figure some of these things out um and just actively looking for people that are really ready for that challenge because it's not easy uh to just come help us figure some out yeah i mean you're my understanding is that you're looking for people from anywhere in the world to come. Yes, yes, yes. I think, I think my goal, my vision is to build the best talent in Africa. I think there's so many talented people in Africa and we want to have them around building for us, but also understand very clearly that because of where we're going to, we need some help we need people that have done these things before to show us some of these things like i want to set a standard for engineering culture in africa yeah you know but how would i do that if i don't know if we haven't seen how it's done elsewhere okay um so um we think the best case scenario for ross is can we find the very best people in the world irrespective of where they're from can they come spend time with us about a year or more can they upskill people can we learn from them can they for every one person we get that's about 20 people that will be upskilled or even more you know so how can we find these people? How can we learn from them? How can we become better than them? You know, and all that, because I think there's a lot happening, you know? There's startups actually that do that now, you know? But for us, in fact, we've talked about creating a bootcamp, you know? Can we find someone to help us run a bootcamp to just internal bootcamp, just internal bootcamp, just help us upskill people. Because the problems are there. The real problem is, do we have enough people that have the right experience to fix it? And we can't, like, I run this company on Google. Like, I search, how do you do this? How do you do that? But I think at some point, it will get more difficult to do that. So is there someone that can just i can just be inside and just help us because some of these things yeah absolutely yeah yeah you can i mean you can definitely email anyone who's done yc before but even that no no and also the yc community has been extremely extremely helpful that's like the best part of yc like i thought yc best part of yc was going through YC. Okay. At every point in my career in FaceTag, I've always thought the best part of YC was something else. So in the beginning, I thought the best part of YC was the 120K. But very quickly, I saw that the best part of YC was YC. And then later, and now I think the best part of YC is just book face, just passively seeing conversations happening. And so some of the times when I see some of these things, like, oh, I saw this, someone talked about this three months ago. Can I search for it? Can I see the responses? So it's just, it feels like I'm building a company with about a thousand other people. So it feels like, I don't know, it's really exciting. No, I mean, everyone's in the same struggle. So they're just like happy because everyone's been helped out so many times. Exactly, exactly. No, the network is really amazing. And like you said, everybody's helpful, helping. Sometimes I wonder like, does this person really need to help me? Well, yeah, I think yeah man and when you were talking about building a boot camp like yeah are are there boot camps yeah there's a company doing it very well i think they're doing very well they find the best people oh okay and they do it for four years um yeah but but um i and i like that model i think that will scale in the long term but what I think at Paystack now what I was saying is can we find the best engineers locally can we find someone that can help us make them extremely can we find good engineers and turn them into great and amazing engineers in as short as possible in as short as three months? Because I know with engineering, some things you just have to have seen the problems before. You can't really anticipate some things. So just having someone, having a 10X engineer just sit with a team of five engineers, I think it helps everybody. Yeah, it's an interesting idea because it's actually a common complaint I've heard that companies get a lot of junior, great JavaScript engineers and they can make all kinds of blogs. But doing the more complicated stuff is harder to find with people. Exactly, exactly. And I agree. I agree. I agree completely. And I think the earlier we start figuring this out, the better, because I don't think our problems will reduce. I think it's going to get more complicated. It's going to get more difficult. So yeah, it's really just, I hope we can take on this challenge. I hope we can find the right people. I hope we can take on this challenge. I hope we can find the right people. But yeah, if there's anyone listening, if there's anyone interested in just the challenge of building in Africa, building some of the best, just working with the payments infrastructure in Africa, building for some of the best businesses in Africa, please reach out to me. And we're willing to even help with the experience, just give very good experience living in Lagos help with logistics help with accommodation um help them even travel see the continent you know so it's going to be a good offer but let me just think like can we find the best people yeah can we figure some of these problems out as soon as we can and can we just help businesses um start and scale i think it's awesome um you got a ton of questions people seem very excited to talk to you yeah we'll make it happen um so i i want to make sure i give them credit but uh someone asked about crypto you know people have talked about talked about, has crypto exploded in the past couple of years? Maybe it's in these less developed markets that it'll really take hold. You're on the ground, what's actually happening? I think there's a lot of activity happening. I would admit that most of the activity is around trading. People are buying and selling very quickly. I think the right use cases will are still just being formed um so i haven't like i think the righteous cases is just still being formed but right now there's a lot of trading activity okay happening okay um so that so many people it seems like from n Nigeria, are also asking you questions. And then some of them, let's just start with the basic stuff. So Creative Joe, their question is, how difficult is it to get into YC? What do you think about that? I think how easy is it to get into YC if you have a good business? I think the YC process, I used to think it was difficult too. I think the YC process actually select selects the right people i don't know how to explain that but if you have like all the right components it's extremely easy you know um i think the hard work is can you clearly articulate how impressive your business is can you just even explain what you're doing and can they understand what you're saying so yeah and were there certain things that i mean maybe this was in fundraising too where you felt that you had to educate u.s investors about the market a lot a lot of times a lot of times um i think it is what it is yeah yes but but i think the right investors like they know what to look out for and that's what makes YC exciting. Like I told you, I was just processing $200. I didn't buy it. The questions were around other things. Like, can you build it? Why will you be the one to build it? Like, what is your experience and all that? So I think YC is in that bucket of sophisticated investors that know the right questions to ask. So even if they don't have the local context, they know what to look out for, which is good. That's why I think it's relatively easy. I think founders need to focus on building the businesses such that when the opportunities come, it becomes easy for them to take advantage of those opportunities. Yeah, I think in large part, people are looking for cheat codes and the only cheat code is to make something great. Exactly, to make something people want. All right, so Paul Israel, he asks, what gaps do you think still exist in the Nigerian fintech space? Whoa. I think there's still a lot um i think there's still a lot i think just nigeria like we said is very big financial services in nigeria is very big um so i think there's still a lot um i think there's there's there's some opportunity for scoring credit scoring i know a few people are doing that now, but there's some opportunity there. There's still no, like, cash up, there's something around. I know that there are also things happening there, but like, there's still no, so I will say across all financial services industries, it's still hard to say this is the winner. So I will say, because there's still hard to say this is the winner so i will say because there's still no clear winner in all parts um the multiple opportunities all right uh nelson asks are there any conventional startup pieces of advice that did not work for paystack as their target market is in Africa? That's a good question. Well, I think I will say, I think generally I've found the advice I received here actually more useful because I think building a business is building a business. Yeah. Building a business is hard everywhere. So I think that's the hardest part for me, like finding people, building the business, what should you be doing? What are your priorities and all that? So, and I think that's like constant wherever you are. Okay. Yeah. So I would say, I would say, I would say this, I to wherever you are. Yeah, so I would say this. I haven't seen anything that didn't really work. Maybe some things that are fundraising. I think things are more difficult, I would say, but I think the principles are still the same. Yeah, it must have been in some other interview I heard with you, but you were kind of talking about the psychology there, but like more people were telling you like you couldn't. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. That's it. Exactly. So, and I think I talked about it just coming here. Like the psychology is, and I think that's changing now two years later, I think it has changed. But two years ago, like when I told people I'm doing a payments company, like people laughed at me, like, like how your competition is a 14 year, like 14 year old company that has a billion dollars. What a billion dollars. Who are you? Like, you know, I got a lot of that. And I'm sure people still get it that, you know, why will you be the one to figure this out? But I think that mindset is changing now if there's a team that is focused on solving a problem yeah um it's getting easier for them to just get access to whatever they need you know so um i think i think that's that's helpful so that mindset is changing i think with companies like paystack and a lot of other companies in different industries just breaking some of these barriers um i think it's getting easier for other people you know so yeah yeah man you're leading the way uh for better or worse uh nelson had another question i thought was interesting um what are some of the the most important lessons you've learned while building Paystack? Wow, a lot. Yeah. Yeah, I think, okay. That's a very good question. I think your team is very important. I think it's tied to the first question around how that courage, like people will worry, like how would you figure this out? But just in building pay stack i've seen that you can be courageous like just pick a big problem and solve it but you won't be the one to solve it yourself like you're going to have to find the right team to help you figure this out you know so uh just learned that quickly can i find people better than me um and i switched into that mode maybe one month into Paystack, like one month into YC. And everybody that has joined the team has been better than me at, because I started doing everything, customer success, front end, back end, design, everything on my own. Fundraising, yeah. Exactly, you know, so but like, just started disconnecting that and finding the best people, people that can do it better than me. I think just learning that has really helped. Yeah, I think that's one. And then number two, I think is just around, I think is there's an ecosystem available. Like, so don't try to do it yourself, you know. Just can you learn how to use the ecosystem to solve some of the problems you have, you know. And do you guys think, do you think you fundraised at the right time? So every time we fundraised, like it came at us, like we never, so this fundraise, for example, should have just started now. Actually it was September. That was when we set it up for, because I, should have just started now. Actually, it was September. That was when we set it up for, because I came, I had a conversation. I said, I wanted to do it at the end of the year. I went to atrium school. So just got into that mode very quickly and saw that, you know what? Okay, I can spend the rest of the year just building up for like a September september fundraise yeah um and then things just happened very quickly yeah so yeah that's it it just happened yes yes okay all right um let's do another uh let's do another nelson question they ask what are some applications you would love to see built on top of pay stack wow yeah so i think um i you would love to see built on top of Paystack? Wow. I think I would definitely love to see like a P2P payments. So something like Cash App would be interesting. I think something for businesses too. I really love. So before Paystack, while I was figuring out Paystack, I really wanted to build something like Rex actually, which is like expenses, employee expenses and all that. I really, really wanted to build that. I thought that, well, the foundational infrastructure wasn't even there. So we have to start from like collections and these products. So if someone can build something for like expense management and all that, I think that'll be exciting on Paystack. In fact, I had a name for it, Expendly or something like that. I think I still have the domain. So if you want it, I can give it to you. Yeah, so just a few things. Okay. What about the market in general? Because like, yeah, of all the startups that exist in the states for example like what would you love to see over there hmm interesting that's a big question yeah yeah so i think wow yeah so i would say actually that most of these startups already exist in ads in in some some country just maybe not at the skill it's like being executed here i was excited to see that where the world's building stripe because i spent about three or four years just following stripe like all their workforce everything on their documentation and all that so um i'm excited but other than that, I think most of the other companies have some form. Maybe something like Apple. Yeah. Which is not too... Main ground phones. Yeah, yeah. Maybe something around phones, something around games, something around... Yeah. But I would say most of the things have some form. Okay. Because there were a handful of questions around just like how the market in Africa is maturing. Like what's the state of the infrastructure? Okay. So I would say this is a very exciting time to be building for Africa. Okay. I think because there's a very young population. I think for context in 19, okay, this is going to be very interesting. I don't have the numbers on my head, but I think in 1960, Nigeria's population was about 45 million. Italy's population was about 45 million, I think. And just going through 40 years or 45 years,igeria is in 200 million italy is probably still about 60 million or 40 it's still in that range you know so like and this is not just nigeria countries are moving very fast like in the next five years i think nigeria is going to be even more than the u.s so the population is young active like like they have access to phones and all that. So if this is the right time to build for these people. Yeah. So I think the market is just getting there and some foundational things are now being built. So the payments layer has been figured out now. The logistics layer has been figured out now. Well, what does that look like? Is there a train network? What's the road situation? What does it look like? Well, yeah, there's like, I think there's a road network. I mean, like, yeah. Like what's the, what quality are we talking about? No, no, it's... I shouldn't say that, but... But I think it can definitely be better, especially in Nigeria and Lagos. But I think the companies figuring it out, the exciting thing is about- It's happening. Can we just go against the constraints? Can we, even if the roads are bad, can we find the best ways to just solve the problem um so i think the interesting common is figuring out logistics um three-hour logistics is coming called max or ng i think um so i will say yeah so it's getting easier people are figuring out payments people are figuring out logistics people are figuring out housing and so whatever you want to build on top of this is going to become easier. Okay. Nestor Izigao. Is that a Nigerian name? Can you pronounce that one? Yeah, Izigao. Izigao. All right, there you go. Do you think something like GoFundMe could work in Nigeria? Yeah, there's multiple sites like that. There's a company called DonateNG, I think, already working. Yeah, I think it can work. Anything can work. Anything can work. Boom. Exactly. Easy. Yes, yes, yes. This next one, Carjoy asks, can I receive payments on an MVP e-commerce website before registering a company? Is that a specific question? Yes e-commerce website before registering a company is that a specific question just launched so um when we launched space stack we called only you had to be a registered business to use space stack okay but we just launched something earlier in the year called stata businesses so yes you can register business with your personal details so there's something called the bvn now which is the barometric verification number that everybody has okay so it's made it easy for us to just identify people. So just talking about the former question about how things are changing. So the identity infrastructure is just being built. So imagine how long ago you guys at the US had the social security number. And now just three or four years into a BVN, which is not really a direct comparison, but it's the closest we have to identifying people. And so now you, in other words, you connect a personal checking account or something like that. Yeah, exactly. We can just get your BVN and we get your details. We can verify that. We can allow you to accept payments for I think up to about $3,000. And then after that, you have to like register the business all right so the answer is yes yes exactly and we got it a lot that's why we launched um the startup business account oh right on yes um i shoot stress man this and here's another is that a nigerian name no no all right great all right Great. All right. asks, what's your tech stack? Yeah, so it's a lot of Node, Node.js, and sitting on AWS. Yeah. We have Vue.js. We have some Angular on the front end. Yeah. Yeah. So one or two PHP services. I think we have one or two PHP services. Okay. I think we have one or two Python services. Yeah. Hmm. So. But it's primarily Node.js. Okay. Modern internet. Yeah. Exactly. Jordan Jackson is curious about the biggest cultural differences that you account for in product design and user interface. Okay. Yeah. That's a very good question. So I think early this this came up came at us very quickly like when we designed our checkout form and we had like cvv blah blah blah yeah we're like what like or even expiry date you know how in the u.s you just put like ddmm or something like that yeah mmyy yeah um and people were putting the date of birth. And I'm saying this because for most people, not most people, when we started, we started with early adopters. But we moved quickly from early adopters to people that were using their card for the first time online on Paystack. Like the first time you're using a card in your life online is on pay stack so yeah we don't take that lightly like we have to do all it takes to make sure that when you're making that payment when you hear cvv yeah you've never heard cvv before that's totally fair exactly so it has to like make it easy you know so i think that's like uh so designing UX has been like, can we build from first principles? Can we realize that some of those people, this is their first payments they will ever make online? How can we make it easy for them to use? And I think it's exciting. So what are like the affordances that you put in there? Is it like a video showing this is what that is? It's some like, just we've played around with it. It's a lot around tool tips, to be honest. A lot around moving things around very quickly for them. So just helping them move to the next level and showing them what it is. So it's showing, like having a diagram of the back of the card, for example. And do you have to, what's the average internet speed? Is it similar to the States? I think it's fair. Oh, it is? OK. It works. Now I can't tell where I'm browsing if I'm in the US. I'm in Lagos, to be honest. There's also a YC company, ZZ, figuring out Wi-Fi. And that's the point. People are building stuff, solving all those problems. So there are no problems again. There are problems, but people are making progress and trying to figure out how this thing works. MARK MANDELMANN, That's cool. So you haven't had to do any crazy hacks around latency or internet speed or anything like that? GARY ILLYES- I would say we have. Okay. Because also when you're designing for like multiple people, you have to figure multiple things out. You know, in fact, very quickly we moved past paying with cards because not everybody wants to pay with a card. So we allow people to pay directly with their bank accounts. We allow people to pay with USSD. USSD is, I don't know, well, it's something like star 737 like you dial a code on your phone okay and it's connected to something something it's connected to your mobile billing your mobile phone no no not really like it's connected to your bank so you connect with your phone provider your bank account and then you can pay through that exactly something like that um yeah so just realizing that people are different yeah i think very interesting thing about africa and nigeria specifically is how different they're about 250 tribes you know so it's different like 250 languages more than 250 languages you know so when you're figuring some of these things out of course the language is english but the cultural like you have to just design for everybody inclusion yeah but it's exciting i think these are some of the things that's why we know that we're in a good business we know that this is going to be a lot of work, but we'll get to do the work. We'll figure it out and we'll make it work. Man, total tangent. Are your family members as happy as you are? Like as like smiley? I think they're happier. Oh, really? I used to be happier than this, bro. Instead of Facebook. Oh no. Everything. Yeah, but I think things are really really exciting i think five years ago this was my dream like like to to just be able to figure stuff out to have all the to have like without excuses like now i'm in a bad place i say this because i don't have excuses like it was easy to have excuses i say oh we don't have money oh it's hard to raise money because I don't have excuses. Like it was easy to have excuses. I say, oh, we don't have money. Oh, it's hard to raise money. I don't have people. I don't know. Now I have money. Well, a little money. I have a strong team. I have very good people supporting us. I have access. We have regulatory cover. We have everything. So the only thing we have to do is just build, which is bad. So it's just really like, we have to build. There are no excuses. And I'm excited to be honest, because I know like, this is just going to go as far as we want it to go. Yeah. Yeah. And how do you keep yourself sane? Well, I think also just like moving so i travel a lot for work okay but it helps me because like when i'm in lagos like i'm just doing meetings back to back um when i come to maybe san francisco switches to just coffee meetings and all that uh When I go somewhere else, like switches again. So I'm able to switch it off like very quickly. Yeah. So maybe just, and then when I'm flying, I sleep. That's the act of making like a jet lag. You just, I just sleep all through the flight. So whenever I get back, I'm awake. Were there, it's funny like the excuses you may have had five years ago are there any elements of your life five years ago that you miss now now that you're busy founder guy to be honest um i think it's just like building deeper relationships you know um so i was flying in today for example and i just wanted to like respond to catch up on like my messages yeah when i looked at it and it was so overwhelming i'm like no i can't catch up no i'm not doing this again you know so um i think just um i could be very deep before now i still have a few deep relationships but um five years ago i could like really spend more time with people you know that i wish i still and i hope i would start doing more of that and that's why i'm looking for just more people to help me figure some of these things out yeah so yeah but i think that's it um yeah but thankfully I think people understand my friends understand and so little opportunities we have we just catch up very quickly yeah do you find time to like exercise or go on dates or anything like that I no no I'm married actually so that's good but exercise people would agree with me I don't know I don't know I don't know I try to want to exercise I don't really exercise when I'm in Lagos but maybe when I'm out of town I okay so it's like 100% work all the time and that's cool with you that works no well I'm 99% work wow and you've been doing it for years. I think there are faces to this, to be honest. I think we're just at this very crazy phase now. Yeah. And I recognize that my health is also very important. And I tell my team to feel free to just stop. There's some times, there's some meetings I actually stop and just text and say, I'm sorry, I can't make this meeting. I just can't. So sometimes I do that where I just give up. I just tap out. Exactly. I can't do this again. But like, and then once I get my energy back, I continue. Okay. So in terms of your personal and Paystack's growth, where do you want to be in five years? Wow, that's interesting. I think the Paystack specifically, I think the payments problem is still very big. I think five years down the line. I think there's so many businesses, there's so many people building interesting stuff in Africa. I want to look at the next five years and see Paystack actually helping these people figure some of these things out. I want to see the very successful companies over the next five years being supported, being helped, being powered by Paystack. I think that's going to be exciting for me because they're going to be winners in Africa. And I really want to be the one powering these winners. So that's it. And I think if FaceTag is successful, obviously I probably hope I will be successful too. Yeah. And then personally? Yeah. So like my personal goals are really tied to the company's goals. I just want to see this work. I want to help. Not even help. I just want to do my work. And I know that in just doing my work, a new generation of people are going to be able to do their own work. So I'm in a very interesting place. Dang. All right, man. The question I've been wondering this whole plays yeah dang alright man the question I've been wondering this whole time might be my last one it's like I want some music recommendations from Africa what's like what's like the good stuff you know you know I I went to Vietnam actually nice and I was thinking about it that if I ever stop doing Pace Back I'll have to be a DJ because And I was thinking about it that if I ever stopped doing Payslack, I'll have to be a DJ because it's so easy to be an African DJ. Just so-called, so-called. Like the songs are very easy. I'll just answer. Just send me like a playlist. Exactly. So I think it's just Wizkid, Davido. He's a very popular artist and a very interesting song. Tewa Savage, Don't Come Mighty. Yeah. I very interesting songs tiwa savage don't come my tea yeah i don't know like um the nigerian music scene is really yeah man the whole african music scene is fucking awesome i just discovered this like uh i think it's called analog africa it's this youtube channel that's just like pulling all these like lps from the 60s and 70s and putting it up. They have even some black and white music videos that are so good. I love it. I get inspired by just listening to some of these songs. Yeah, man. Wow, these guys are doing well. If they're doing well in music, then let's do this in tech. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Has the festival scene taken hold there as well? Well, I think a lot of things happen in December. I think that's the period when there's a lot of activities. So yeah, if you want to visit later. Wasn't there some African Burning Man thing too? Ah, well, I don't know. Maybe there is. I haven't been there. Maybe I haven't been there. I don't know. Yeah. All right, man. So Maybe I don't know. Yeah. All right, man. So if someone wants to come work for you guys, where should they go? I think because it's very urgent now, just reach out to me directly. On Twitter, Shola, it's Sholsman on Twitter, but send us an email actually. You can just send me an email, shola.pacelag.com and say you heard this. You heard the YC podcast yeah but yeah looking for the best people to just help us figure this out I know man alright well thanks for coming in thanks so much had a good time you