 Hi, I'm Hans Stager and I'm a partner at Y Combinator. And today I'm going to be talking about what I think is arguably the most important part of starting a company, which is finding the right co-founder. So let's start by talking about why should you have a co-founder at all? Well, I think there's three main reasons you really want a co-founder when you're starting a company. The first is productivity. You can get a lot more work done if you have someone to divide the work up with. And you can get much better work done if you have a co-founder who maybe has complementary skills so they can do things that you can't. co-founder who maybe has complementary skills so they can do things that you can't. And there's someone you enjoy discussing ideas with. So you can brainstorm and come up with better ideas than you could alone or have someone to talk you out of potentially bad ideas. So you get a lot of uplift in just the amount and quality of work you can do with a co-founder. The second reason is moral support. Startups are an incredibly intense and taxing journey. And it's great to have someone you can lean on for support during the tough times. And what I've noticed about the best co-founder relationships is they have this dynamic where both co-founders kind of balance each other out. So if one founder is having a bad day, they're feeling a little down, despondent, and they've become a little pessimistic and feel like the startup is about to die, the other co-founder can just help bring them up a little bit and keep them going, keep them motivated, and vice versa. Sometimes you get too carried away. You sign a customer and you think you're guaranteed to IPO, and you can use someone to just ground you and bring you back to reality a little bit. And so that's where I kind of find the best co-founding relationships can help kind of even out some of the highs and lows of the emotional roller coaster that is a startup. And while you can get productivity increased by hiring people or bringing on contractors, you don't get that same emotional support that you do from a co-founder. Because ultimately, anyone who's working for you, you're the boss, and they're not as invested in the success of the startup as you are. And you can't really be as open or honest with them about the company as you can be with a pick. And that's what you get from a co-founder. The final reason I'd say to have a co-founder is pattern matching to success. If you look at a list of the most successful startups in history, think of Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, they all had co-founders when they started. And now, I think sometimes people forget this point, because when you think of these great iconic companies, you associate them with a single person, usually the CEO, who's over time risen to become prominent, famous, and a bit of a celebrity. So when you think of Apple, you think of Steve Jobs. When you think of Microsoft, Bill Gates. When you think of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, right? And I think it's completely true that over time, and we're talking at this point decades, because that's how long successful startups are around for. Over that time period, it's pretty common for one person to kind of really drive the company, become the figurehead for it and stick out the company for a long, long period of time. And that's why I remember those people. But we're talking about the earlier stages of starting a company. And in those days, all of these founders had co-founders that they lent on for all the reasons I just mentioned. So I think it's always important to remember that when you're starting a company and wondering whether you should have a co-founder or not. Okay, so hopefully I've convinced you that you really do want a co-founder when you're starting a company. But what if you're really keen to get started on a company right now, and you don't have a co-founder that's immediately available or someone that you can bring on board? Should you wait to get a great co-founder before you start the company? Or should you just go ahead and get started? Well, I think the default answer is that you should wait because of all the reasons I just mentioned, all the benefits that you get from having a co-founder. But Y Combinator has funded single founders, and we have done so successfully. So I've noticed that there are some exceptions to this rule, and they tend to follow a particular pattern. And that pattern is that the single founder, single-stranding company by themselves, has two things that are true. So one is they have an idea that they have incredibly high conviction about, either because they're solving a personal problem for themselves, so they really know a solution is necessary, or they're a domain expert. They're working in a field where they know for sure there's a technology that's missing, who the customer's right might be. So the result of that is they have such conviction in the idea that they don't need a co-founder to convince them that this is a good idea to get started on. They're ready to go. them that this is a good idea to get started on. They're ready to go. The second condition is that those single founders, they're able to make progress on that idea without a co-founder in the short term, at least. And that almost always means that they're technical or at least technical enough to be able to build the first version of the product so they can show it to potential investors or maybe even to potential co-founders who may want to join the company. And that second point is something I've noticed that the best single founders are also able to do is not only are they tremendously productive in building product and talking to users themselves, they're also able to run a great background search and keep their four co-founders and keep their eyes open. And if the opportunity arises, bring on a great co-founder. And I think the best example I can think of here would be Drew Habs in the Dropbox. So Drew applied to Y Combinator way, way back now in 2007. He had a really solid idea for building Dropbox because he'd already felt the pain of losing his own file. So he knew for sure there was a better solution to build. But he didn't have a co-founder. And so Paul Graham, the Y Combinator founder, messaged him back saying, we love your application. You're great. The idea is great. But we really won't fund you without a co-founder. So come back to us when you have one. And Drew kind of went away, continued building the Dropbox prototype while also looking for co-founders and found Arash, who would be later the Dropbox CTO and his co-founder. And he applied again and was able to fund him. And now Dropbox is obviously a tremendously successful company. So that's kind of what I'd ask you to bear in mind is if you're really keen to get a startup right now, but you don't have a co-founder, ask yourself, do you have absolute high conviction in this idea? You know for sure that this is the idea that you want to work on. There's no other ideas that you'd be open to. And can you really make progress without having a co-founder? And if those things are true, sure, go ahead and give it a shot. But if not, I'd really suggest you wait until you do have a co-founder to start a company. So when you're thinking about bringing on a co-founder, what should you be looking for in them? Well, I actually think the single most important thing to know about someone before you start a company with them is how do they handle stress? And the second most important is how well are they going how do they handle stress and so second most important is how well are they going to help you handle stress and the reason i say that is startups are incredibly stressful uh intense experience as i mentioned before and a great care founder should be able to support you through those and help you through those because if you're determined and motivated and enjoy working together you'll keep working on this startup for a long period of time and that's usually what it takes to build a really successful company so you really don't want to start a company with someone that you don't know particularly well because even if you've spent time with them in social events or you've hung out together a little bit you don't really have insight into how they're going to respond to pressure and stress and are they someone that's going to stick around when things are tough um and are they someone that's going to help you stick around when things are tough so the best people to start companies with are always people that you've got some set of personal experiences where you kind of know the character and how they're going to respond to those tough situations and that usually means there's someone that a close friend or someone that you've worked with under stressful conditions so I'd certainly recommend that you be on the lookout and think about that when you're considering co-founders. The second thing I think you really want to look for is understanding the goals and values someone has for starting a company or wanting to do a startup. Honestly, I think when I was younger, I used to think of goals and values as being fuzzy terms. They didn't mean too much. But over time, I realized really what they mean is understanding the motivations someone has for doing what they do. And in this context, I think it's really important to talk with someone, even if you know them very well, about why do they want to do a startup? What are they hoping for? And the kinds of things that can come out are avoiding conflicting goals, right? So for example, let's say that you really want to build a high growth, high intensity, high risk startup. And you want to push forward, you want to raise venture capital, you want to hire a bunch of people, you want to just really go for it. And your goal is to take the company public and you're okay taking lots of risks along the way to get there. That's a totally fine set of motivations. It's a very common set of motivations for startup founders. But let's say your co-founder prefers to take kind of a slow and steady approach. Maybe they're more motivated by building great software for a small group of people and they would be totally fine if you just made enough revenue to pay yourself good salaries and just grew a little bit every year um that's also a completely fine set of motivations or when you start a company but the two motivations there aren't compatible with each other and they'll lead to inevitable conflict so what i'd suggest is make sure that you have this conversation and it's not a perfect predictor because people's goals and ambitions for a startup change over time i've seen people start companies because honestly they just wanted to get rich and their hope was that they were able to sell the company in two to three years for a good amount to a bigger company. But they got two to three years into the company and they loved it so much. They got so excited by the challenge that they kept working on it and they're still working on it a decade later. So that's totally fine. I'm not saying that having this conversation means you're going to know for sure whether your goals and values are aligned over the next decade, which is again, how long it usually takes if a startup is successful. But at least having the conversation gives you a better chance of finding a co-founder who you're aligned with around high-level important stuff. Now, I think you're probably wondering, I'm talking about what you should look for in co-founders, and I haven't mentioned the obvious thing, which is what skills do they have? So it's obviously really important to have a co-founder who has the right set of skills to help you grow the company. And usually that means someone who's got a complementary set of skills to you, right? So if you're really great at sales, talking to users, getting customers, ideally you'd have a co-founder who's really great at building product and writing code and building software because the two of you can divide and conquer and get a lot done. While I do think that's really important, I don't think it's what you should overly fixate on, right? So more important than anything is just working with someone that you like working with and you trust. And so if the person who best fits that description doesn't necessarily have the perfect set of complementary skills to yours, I think that's fine. You should still bring them on as a co-founder. And then you can start hiring people. Assuming you can make enough progress in the company to get investment, you can hire people to kind of fill in the skills gaps. And that's okay. Another point I just make on this is when you are trying to decide if someone's got complementary skills to you, don't go too much into the details of how well do their skills map onto the specific idea you're working on right now. So a common example of this we see sometimes is someone's considering growing on a technical co-founder and they want to build an iPhone app. But the co-founder, even though they know them, they trust them, they've worked with them before, that co-founder isn't necessarily an iPhone app developer. They haven't built iPhone apps in the past. That's not a reason to rule someone out as a co-founder. What does matter is that they're willing to learn what they need to learn. So if they're not an iPhone developer, they're willing to learn how to do that. And particularly they're not an iPhone developer, they're willing to learn how to do that. And particularly, they're willing to learn things that maybe aren't glamorous. Like startups are often just a grind of doing a lot of boring, grunt work to get the thing going. And so long as you have a co-founder who's okay with that, it's totally fine if they don't have the perfect set of skills. So don't rule someone out who's potentially a great co-founder because they don't have this checklist of specific skills you're looking for, but do make sure you count them in if it's someone that you trust, you like working with, and you've got a good sense of how they're going to handle the stress and pressure of the startup journey. So where should you look for defined co-founders? Well, the answer here is a little obvious. It's to start with the people you already know. So ideally your friends and colleagues. And kind of ironically, the best time to find a co-founder are when you're not actually necessarily looking for a co-founder to start a company with right now. And what I mean by that is if I were kind of giving myself advice 10, 15 years ago, what I would say is rather than sort of trying to pick a startup idea and go and find co-founders to work on with it, I would suggest that I just look for people to do projects with. So if you're in school, look around, see who's in your class, who's in school, and identify people that you think would be cool to work on a project with. And this project doesn't have to be a take over the world idea or company. It just has to be something you find interesting. Maybe you're into games and you want to build a cool game together. The thing that's awesome about projects is that it's much less scarier and asking for a far lower commitment if you ask someone to work on a project with you than it is to go straight into, hey, let's start a company together. So you have a higher chance of people saying yes if you ask them for this. And the other thing that's great about projects is you can work on different projects with different people and you can start developing a taste for who do you work well with, what kinds of personalities, what kinds of skills are you actually good at as opposed to what you might think you're good at? And so what kind of complementary skills might you look for in a co-founder? And again, being in school for college is a really ideal time for this because you're surrounded by lots of people who usually have a decent chunk of spare time. And so you can start getting together to work on things that you think are fun and again kind of ironically although this is i'm suggesting you don't try and start a startup um projects that you work on in your spare time often tend to be some of the greatest sources for actually finding great startup ideas and building huge companies you know facebook's an obvious example something that started out as a project while mark zuckerberg was an undergrad at at Harvard and now it's turned into one of the biggest companies in the world. But that's not why I'm suggesting you do this. I'm suggesting you kind of look for people to work on projects with because that's a great way for you to get a sense of what kind of person do you enjoy working with and what specific type of personality do you work well with. And this advice also applies if you're not in college or school. Maybe if you're working with and what specific type of personality do you work well with and this advice also applies if you're not in college or school maybe you're um if you're working at a company like look at your co-workers like keep a list of people that you think are particularly smart particularly capable who impresses you and start getting to know them better and ask them if they're up for working on things in the evening as a weekend. That's the kind of personality or the kind of person who's interested in working on evening and weekend projects is the kind of person that's likely to make a great co-founder. I actually remember years ago at Y Combinator Startup School when it was an in-person physical event. We had Phil Libin, the founder of Evernote there. of Evernote there. And he kind of gave a somewhat extreme version of this advice, which was that he sort of years and years before he started the company, knew that he wanted to start a company someday. And so he would only make friends with people that he thought could someday be a co founder. And now, while I think that advice is maybe a little bit extreme, if you don't just want to be around people who might be co founders, there is truth to it, right. So I think that advice is maybe a little bit extreme, if you don't just want to be around people who might be co-founders, there is truth to it. So I think this is kind of the thing where if you make this sort of a conscious effort well before you start a company, it will probably be the best bet for finding a great co-founder. But let's say you do know for sure that you want to start a company and you're kind of ready to go again right now like how do you start finding co-founders well again you start in the same place you start with people that you know and what i've noticed is an issue people run into here is that they can be really reluctant to just ask people they know to start a company with them and that can it's all kind of reasons there like maybe you're worried about how your relationship will change like maybe um you don't sort of value the personal relationship more than the risks of of working with someone and those are fair concerns but it's not the right optimization for starting a company like you have to make the ask so what i suggest is a pretty simple algorithm here for finding co-founders. It's make a list of the people that you know, you're closest to, that you think would be great co-founders and start from top to bottom and ask every single person on there to go grab coffee and talk to them and ask them if they'll start a co-company with you and be your co-founder. And if they say no that's totally fine so you understand but like who would they start a company with and make it very specific ask them if you were starting a company who would be sort of your top three or four co-founders that you want to try and convince to work with you and ask them for an introduction to each of those people so your list keeps growing now you ask the people you know if they say, you at least get some more ideas for names. And then you meet with those people and you ask them. And you similarly repeat the same algorithm. Ask them if they'd be interested in being a co-founder with you or not. And if they say no, ask them who they try and recruit. And so this way, you start growing the tree of potential co-founders beyond those people you immediately know, but at least they're still connected by people that you do know. So they're not just sort of completely random strangers. The final sort of bit of advice I'd say for where to look is go out and try and meet people that just have similar interests to you, right? This kind of sounds a little bit just like how to have a social life, but this is essentially what finding co-founders reduces to so if you're an engineer um attend like developer meetups or work on open source projects um uh or go to hackathons like do things where others engineers and builders are hanging out and you'll likely find some leads and even if you're not technical if you're interested in those things, you should totally attend those kinds of events too. But maybe you'll also just attend or find people who are interested in the kinds of things you're interested in. Maybe you're interested in economics and finance and that's kind of the pool of things, or that's a pool of interest where you think you'll find a startup idea. Well, make a real effort to go out and meet people who have similar interests. And maybe in these COVID times, there's lots of online groups and communities that you can join. But even in regular times, there's always ways to find people who have similar interests for you. And if you're consciously on the lookout for people who might make co-founders, you have a high chance of finding someone who could be a good fit. So once you found a potential co-founder, how do you test out and know for sure that you both want to start a company together before making a final commitment? Well, it's not a perfect process. And at some point, you just kind of work together and set yourself a deadline by which time you want to have ideally sort of like a MVP or a prototype of something built or you at least want to have gone out and tried out pitching some customers and convincing them to pay you if you did build a particular product these are all the things you'd usually do when you're signing up with a new company or testing out a new idea anyhow and do that together and agree that you know at the sort of end of the time that you've set aside that you'll both have an honest conversation decide do we both enjoy working together on this um and if so great let's go ahead and make the leap and if not be honest and say hey let's go our own separate ways so making that a little bit more tangible uh if you both have you know no other commitments you know which is pretty uncommon but sometimes happens if say you both graduated college and you didn't go and get a job because you want to start a company then i'd say treat this like your full time job right like say that hey we're going to set aside uh a month or three months and uh let's just sort of pick a idea we're excited about and get as much progress made as we can on building the first version of it and going out and signing customers and uh even if you can't do that full-time because you have other commitments then do it on evenings and weekends, right? But you'll have to sacrifice some amount of time doing other things in order to actually spend time working together. But the more time, so the more hours you can accumulate of working together on the idea, the better a sense you'll have for sure if you want to start a company or not, right? So once you've kind of done that um let's say you decided that hey we do want to start the company uh and we want to be co-founders then i think there's two important points you want to make sure that you're in agreement on uh first is the equity split right like who owns how much of the company now i think the way to think about this is your default equity allocation should really be 50-50. That's where you want to start from, right? Because assuming that nothing's been built yet, you're at the earliest stages of the company, you're both going to make equal contributions. You both want to be equally motivated to work super hard in the company. And all the work is years and years ahead of you. So there's not really too much reason to deviate from a 50-50 equity split early on. However, we have seen different equity arrangements and they have been successful. And so I kind of think the underlying thing that you're solving for here is making sure that both of you happy with what the equity arrangement is and will be motivated to keep working on the company for a long period of time right and so again usually that means 50 50 but let's just say that you have been working on the company for a little bit longer or you take you de-risked it somehow by yourself and you're bringing on what you commonly call a later stage co-founder then sometimes deviating from 50-50 might make sense but again the thing i would really encourage you to do is not optimize for the short term right so just because you made a little bit of progress on the idea by yourself and you have a great co-founder um and you're sort of thinking hey maybe i should take 70 and just give them 30 like because you've made progress in the last six months i would encourage you not to do that startups are a really long-term game and you want to you win by making the best decision in the long term right so if you have a great potential co-founder and even though you made a little bit of progress on the company yourself if you know that they won't be all in and fully committed to the success of the company unless they're a 50-50 partner you should do that you should make them 50-50 equity partner so you can keep them as motivated and get as much out of them as possible the second thing i think you really want to decide is who's the CEO. Now, this can sometimes be an uncomfortable conversation. And to be honest, it's actually I think a bit of a red flag if it is an uncomfortable conversation. And so as far as the actual title itself goes, early on in a startup when it's just two or three co-founders, in terms of how it impacts your day-to-day and how you divide up responsibilities the title doesn't actually matter like early on you're all going to be doing a little bit of everything there's like plenty of like unglamorous grunt work to go around and just because you have a ceo title doesn't mean you get to abscond from that right so practically it doesn't matter like um uh in terms of who does what uh one exception to that might be you know if uh you need to be doing sales um it usually might be good if the ceo is a person or whoever has a ceo title is a person talking to customers and and users and convincing them because they might feel a little bit more flattered if the CEO is pitching them. And this kind of gets to the point of where really the only impact the CEO title has, and that is externally. And I would say specifically for investors. So investors care about seeing that there is sort of a clear leader and a clear final decision maker or a tiebreaker, and that person should be the CEO. So when you're pitching investors, it's usually better for whoever is sort of does most of the talking, whoever is going to be leading those conversations, that that person is the CEO. And now where you run into problems and a very, very common source of co-founder friction we see at Y Combinator is where two people really want to be the CEO, right? And this can sort of, we can see this in Y Combinator interviews where you end up with two people who kind of talk over each other, they interrupt each other, they can look at each other with a little bit of contempt when the other person's answering. These are all really, really bad signs, right? So be honest with yourselves. If you think it's really important to you to be the CEO and you both feel that way, you're not good co-founders for each other. So just avoid all that pain and heartache and don't start a company together. You ideally want to start a company with someone who doesn't care about that stuff if you do, or you're both indifferent to it and you're fine picking whoever you feel is best suited to the role for now, even if that changes sometime in the future. So let's kind of wrap up everything we've talked about. Once you're sure you want a co-founder, which I hope I've convinced you you do, once you run the process to find some good candidates to be a co-founder and you've identified someone that you really do want to start a company with because you've spent a little bit of time working on projects together and testing each other out, so to speak, then you have the conversations around what's the equity split and who's going to be the CEO. Now you're ready to formalize things. And formalizing really means the legal act of incorporating a company, setting up a vesting agreement. This is really important. Vesting means that the shares in the company, you don't all get them at once. They vest over a period of time. And there's very standard templates and documents with this that you should really ensure that you have in place. And then you're pretty much good to go. And when exactly should you sort of leap from, hey, we're hanging out working together to, hey, okay, let's do some paperwork. Not a perfect answer for that, but it's just kind of a gut feel. Once you've made the commitment to yourself and each other that we are going to make a real go of trying to build a company together, that's kind of the trigger for when you start making things real by getting to the legal cooperation and paperwork done. So that's all the advice I have for how to think about finding the right co-founder and how to make it happen. I hope that helps and good luck.