 Yn ddiweddar, mae yna ddiddordeb yn ystod y cyfnod. Mae'r cyfnod yn ystod y cyfnod. Mae'r cyfnod yn ystod y cyfnod. Mae'r cyfnod yn ystod y cyfnod. Mae'r cyfnod yn ystod y cyfnod. Mae'r cyfnod yn ystod y cyfnod. Mae'r go. So if you don't know, Songkick is the simplest way to find out when your favorite artists are coming to town and they're now the second most trafficked concert service in the world with over 10 million unique fans visiting every month. So welcome Ian. Cool. So yeah, I'm Ian Hogarth, and I'm one of the three co-founders of Songkick. So this is Pete and Michelle, and I'm usually the one out talking, but they're even more responsible than I am for any of the stuff I'm about to explain to you that we've learned along the way. So we started in 2007, and we're in the summer 2007 YC batch. Yeah, we're the easiest way to find shows. If you've ever experienced the sort of frustration of finding out about a show you'd like to have gone to the day after it happens, that's the sort of the problem that Songkit's trying to solve. The average user who starts using Songkick goes to twice as many concerts afterwards. So it's all about making it easier to go to shows. We're backed by some great VCs, Index and Sequoia. And I guess we sort of see there being three main music apps on your phone. There'll be a on-demand streaming app like Spotify, a radio app like Pandora, and a concerts app like Songkick. And the average artist makes about 70% of their income from touring, so we hope we can be relevant to artists as well as fans. So one thing that happens when you build the same company for seven years is you get to watch waves of startups succeed and fail around you. And it kind of rewires your intuition about startups. And I guess I would liken it to watching the first season of 24 after watching all eight seasons in a row. I remember being really terrified by this competitor, Songkick, that launched when we were just getting started and they grew to millions of users in a pretty short space of time and I was really so scared, like how are we ever going to do anything about that? And what happened, though, is over time the distribution platform that they built their product on kind of like moved underneath them and they disappeared. And that really resets your sense of what to be scared by. Similarly, though, you'll see startups that are kind of, just seem to have it all figured out and they become the talk of the town and that won't really surprise you. You'll be like, great, they're an awesome company. And you suddenly read about them having a $100 million valuation. What will surprise you is exponential value creation. So that startup that was suddenly valued at $100 million, the next year you read on TechCrunch they're valued at $1 billion. And you're like, whoa, okay, well, we've got a really good year coming. We're going to work really hard. It's going to get better. And then the next year they go from $1 billion to $10 billion. And that just completely resets your sense of what is possible. And I think some of the people who've spoken today are perfect examples of that crazy exponential curve you can get into. So to put this all in perspective, if I go back to the summer of 2007, there were 22 companies in our YC batch, a lot less than it is now. And I believe most of the others ended up getting shut down or acquired for relatively a'r rhan fwyaf o'r eraill yn diweddaru'n cael eu cymryd neu'u cymryd am fwyaf o arian cymryd. Ac wrth i chi weld hynny ddod i'r gwael, mae'n gwneud i chi ddysgu beth oedd yn anodd. Rwy'n cofio mynd i Boston y flwyddyn hwnnw a bod yn ddcnicol na ni, roedd pobl yn fwy carismatig ac yn gwella'u cynrychioli eu cynnyrchiolaethau na ni, pobl â fysg cynhyrchiolaeth fwyaf, ac roedd gan bob un ohonynt mwy o brofiad i adeiladu cwmnïau internet na ni, yna'r Pete, Michelle a fi. Un o'r start-ups yn ein bach ydw i'n cof by was Disqus. They're like an awesome pair of founders. And it's plausible that Songkir can Disqus may end up being 10 to 100x more valuable than start-ups from our batch that were shut down or had an early exit. Which on the face of it seems like we must have figured some things out and there must be something to be learned from our path, the market, et cetera. But the other company that really endured from our batch is Dropbox, which is likely worth 100x more than both of us at this point. And it's not all about valuations and money, it's about impact. And I do think the valuation is often a pretty good indicator of that. You know, what's more remarkable about that still is that, you know, Drew and Arash are, you know, two of the most humble, down-to-earth founders I know. So kind of amazing. I think what's maybe more inspiring still is, although Dropbox is an incredible company, you know, it's quite possible that one person in this room creates something that's 10x more valuable than Dropbox, which is kind of nuts when you think about it. So I guess hopefully you take this all as a disclaimer for the advice that follows. If you really want to know the mysteries of the startup universe, go talk to Drew and Arash. Also, I'm most interested in consumer stuff, so most of this advice applies to that. Having caveated that I probably have about 100x less insights than most people who've spoken at startup school in the past, I thought about what I would like someone to explain to me in retrospect. First of all, doing a music startup is a pretty good way to get beat down. Felly, yn gyntaf, gwneud start-up cerdd ar gyfer cerdd yn dda iawn i gael ei ddod i lawr. Yn ail, deall cymaint o'r gêm yn bosibl cyn dechrau chwarae. Ac yn olaf, gwneud ymddygiad i'ch cyd-ddych, fel nad ydych yn rhor cyfranogwyr arbennig sydd wedi cymryd cymorth o ran y cymorth o ran eu phasiynau i ddod i'r start-up cerddor. Dalton Caldwell, sydd wedi siarad yma yn ôl, Sean Parker, Jeff Ralston, Dave Goldberg, sy'n arweinydd y It seems to be a relatively well-trodden path. And I was thinking about it on the cycle over here that the founders of the most successful business to come out of Europe, Skype, actually did two different music startups in Kazar and Rdio. So I then realized that Dalton had basically given that talk. So I'm not going to rehash his advice here. You can find it on YouTube. It's a hilarious, hilarious lesson. What I will give you is a slightly more reductive take on building startups in entertainment-related industries, film, TV, art, music. So if you're going to build a startup in one of those domains, here is the advice I would give you, and I have some advice for how this translates into other markets. So first of all, everybody thinks they're more into art, music, film than they actually are. So there was a pretty fascinating study that Zillow put out around the subprime crisis where they surveyed homeowners and they asked them what was going to happen to the value of homes over the next six months. And the majority of people said, value of homes is going to go way down. And then they asked those same people, what do you think is going to happen to the value of your home? And everyone's like, oh, my home's going to stay the same or go up. And it's kind of the same, I think, with entertainment. And I think it's part of the sort of blind spot that founders sometimes have with the space. Actually, most people are into a much narrower set of kind of creative works than they realize. And so a small number of creators drive most activity and revenue for these industries. Now, the next interesting thing about these industries is 99.9999999% of creators end up struggling for a very long time without success. 9% o'r creadurion yn dioddef am ddiwedd hir heb llwyddiant. Felly, pan maen nhw'n rhannu, maen nhw'n hapus iawn i roi cymorth ar gyfer eu gwaith i rywun sy'n mynd i roi sefydliad arian i'w gilydd, p'un a yw'n ddewis neu'n cymryd cynllun o'r cwmni And you know it might be tempting to sort of label that as selling out or something like that But having had friends who've you know spent the last 10 years sleeping on couches to try and make their their their career as an artist work, it's just about getting stable and paying off your debts and Unlike tech where you can be a you know sick engineer Build a start-up totally fails go get a great job at Google You know if you're a musician and your career doesn't succeed, you can't just go and join Radiohead. So have that sympathy. So this transference of rights from the creators to these middlemen leads to a pretty small number of companies owning all the rights for these verticals. So ironically, as the entertainment industry lurches from one model to the next, actually it gets even more consolidated. So for example, music moving from CDs to MP3s to streaming, because the companies who represent the rights are like, we're going to get killed if we don't consolidate further. And the departments of justice, et cetera, say, okay, you can merge. So for example, during the last 10 years, byddwn yn cael ein llwyddo os nad ydym yn cyd-dysgu'n fwy ac mae'r adranau o ddiogelwch yn dweud, gallwch chi gyfweli. Felly, er enghraifft, yn y 10 mlynedd diwethaf, roedd y label record mwyaf o'r byd yn cael eiwmniant, Live Nation, yn cael ei gyfuno â'r fender ticet fwyaf o'r byd. Felly, mae'r cyd-dysgu yn ymddangos i mi fel trend cynyddu yn hytrach, a ydy'n ymwneud â ticeting neu merchendise neu ddysgu gweledol neu ffilm. Felly mae'r lefel o gysylltiad o ddealltwriaeth yn golygu ei fod yn ymwneud â'r ffordd iawn iawn i ddechrau i gyflawni'r cyfrifoldebau hyder, sy'n golygu bod yn golygu cyfathrebu i'w gael eu cymryd i'ch cymryd. Mae llawer o ddacteiddiau gwahanol i gyfathrebu pethau allan, ond mae hynny, yn fy marn, yn un o'r rhesymau allweddol o ran llwyddiant Spotify nawr yn ogystal â'r llwyddiant y g force things to happen faster. So, you know, Google saved YouTube for like label annihilation. And, you know, eight years later owns the largest free streaming music service on the planet, or the way that Apple created digital download markets. So that's one caveat. So the biggest question you need to ask yourself if you want to build a company in the entertainment industry is why will the industry be willing to embrace you? How are you solving a problem for them? You need to understand their problems as well as you understand the consumers' problems. So I guess if PG said kill Hollywood, I would say help Hollywood, grow Hollywood, or fail. So the broader point here, which is hopefully useful if you're not thinking about doing an entertainment startup, is that the level of consolidation in your industry massively changes how you build your startup. If it's highly consolidated, you pretty much have to find a way of partnering with the incumbency. If it's much more fragmented, say vacation rentals or private hire vehicles, you know you're probably best off just going full-stack and competing with the existing incumbents. So I thought one of the things that I most admire about what Patrick's done with Stripe is the way that they worked with the banks rather than being like, you know, kill Bank of America or something. So the second thing I want to share with you guys today is the importance of understanding the startup game before you try and play it. So this is another TV show, The Wire, and a great moment when the game of chess is being explained. I don't think startups are a particularly rational game to play if your goal is financial success, particularly in consumer startups. There is a level of randomness. And so if you're someone who's good at building things, you're probably going to make more money by going and joining one of the hit companies of our era. Or, you know, for example, I remember reading that the first, you know, 100 or multiple 100 employees at Facebook made more money or, you know, for example, I remember reading that the first, you know, hundred or multiple hundred employees at Facebook made more money from, you know, Facebook than the average success founder of a successful startup. Or finding a way to kind of be involved in multiple startups, you know, VC is one way of doing that, but there may be new structures emerge. And, you know, just a cursory overview of portfolio theory will teach you that, you know, if the market has a high degree of randomness, it's probably not a good thing to put all your eggs in one basket. There's this brilliant VC called Matt Kohler, who I think is sort of the perfect Bayesian agent here. He joined LinkedIn very early on, moved to Facebook very early on, and then became a top VC at Benchmark. So I think the main reason to try and build a startup is actually a pretty irrational one. You're just really motivated to solve a problem, a very specific problem. And the satisfaction of building something to solve that problem kind of justifies five to ten years of stress and a good likelihood of failure, a bunch of which will be kind of random and out of your control. So if I haven't deterred you through that positive little positive message, then here are the rules of the startup game as I see them. So there are three engines that I think determine a startup's success. This insight came to us about three years into Songkick's life from this incredibly brilliant guy called Sean Ellis, who's surprisingly not that well known, but I would track down his blog. He's just incredibly insightful about what it takes to make something work. So if I define a new variable, unicorn-ness, your level of unicorn-ness will be roughly your gratification engine to the power of your growth engine to the power of your growth engine to the power of your economic engine. And you become like a full unicorn a la Airbnb, Dropbox, Google, if you get all three right. And every engine that fails will reduce your unicorn-ness by an order of magnitude. So if we take the gratification engine, that's been expressed in much less nerdy terms by Y Combinator as make something people rhywbeth y mae pobl eisiau. Yn ein cas, roedd hynny'n brofiad eithaf brudol. Cynhyrchon ni Songkick gan gydag ymgysylltu rhai sgraperiaid ar gyfer safleoedd tiget gyda llwyddiant allwed ffail sy'n cynnwys y wybodaeth am yr cerdd a gwrando arno, ac ar ddiwedd y cerdd, mae gennych arlaun o gynharau yn eich ardal oherwydd yr cerdd a gwrando arno. Roedd hi'n defnyddio'n dda iawn yn y cyntaf. Dyma sgrinio o'r cyntaf. Y cyflwyniad ar y pum munud o'ch bywyd y gwnaeth this personalized list of shows and some people were willing to do that and they liked it. But the amount of friction involved was way too high for most regular people. So for a long time, you know, you're kind of going around, why isn't it working? Why are more people using it? And we felt like the main reason that people weren't kind of adopting our products in larger numbers was that it didn't do enough. And we added a pretty massive array of additional features that resulted in very little additional usage. And the turning point came when my co-founder Michelle, inspired by Sean Ellis, started running these surveys that really dug deep into why the users that loved our product loved it and why the ones who are kind of like meh didn't find it very compelling. And the bottom line was that our simple idea of personalized concert alerts and never missing a show was actually a very gratifying experience. Like people found shows they would never have gone to and they had life-changing experiences. And we would get these emails that said, oh my God, I just went to four shows and they were some of the best nights I've had this year. Thank you. But too few users were getting to it, and we just needed to radically improve how easy it was to get that gratified experience. And that became easier when new streaming services emerged and APIs emerged for mobile devices so we could get your taste faster. And we also needed to have better underlying concert data. And that was a really big lesson aethodau i ddysgu eich taith yn fwy ffas. Ac roedd angen i ni gael data cwmniadwych gwell. Ac roedd hynny'n adnodd mawr i mi. Rwy'n credu bod dynion, pobl start-up, yn ei hoffi'r syniad o 80-20 neu MVP. Ond unwaith y gwelwch rhywbeth sy'ith o gynyddu sy'n cyflawni'r 20% o waith, ond mae'n cymryd 80% o'ch amser. Ac i ni, dyna'r peth sydd wedi dod o hyd i data. Gael data cyffredin, cyflawniadwy, cyfathrebu, data cwnser cyfrifol, sy'n broblem eithaf anodd i'w gael, trusted authority for a fan. And when you talk to users, you'd really feel it. They'd suddenly realize your data, you had like every small show in their city and the trust level would go up and they'd become more evangelical about the service. Or you wouldn't have those problems where someone said, I was waiting for you to tell me this show is happening. You didn't, you failed me. I'm not using your product ever again. So data, we were always told as a commodity commodity don't bother with it it turned out to actually be really the linchpin around around kind of solving this gratification engine so you know your gratification you have many many levels of refinement that kind of compound on each other whether it's the messaging when someone's arrives the site the core experience the onboarding flows various different conversion rates and you should probably never stop trying to increase it the next engine is your growth engine how new users discover your products. I guess the first big point here is that your growth engine has no chance of really starting unless you have a great gratifying experience. And I'll talk about that more in a minute. But I think there's sort of four main ways of driving substantial growth with consumer products. Word of mouth or viral growth, for example, WhatsApp or Snapchat or Kickstarter. And typically, one of the most compelling ways to do that is through building a communications app. Paid acquisitions, so for example, Groupon, Airbnb and Zynga. When you have a compelling economic model, you can actually spend money to buy users or subsidize something about the experience they would normally pay for. SEO, so Yelp or Wikipedia or Rap Genius, and then kind of API widget distribution, so YouTube, SoundCloud, Twitter. And these aren't mutually exclusive. So for example, Yelp has a killer mobile app and they get tons of word-of-mouth growth in addition to SEO. Or, you know, you probably didn't think of Airbnb as a company that grew through spending money because they've done so many other aspects of growth. They've got a killer product with word of mouth that's allowed them to spend money on optimizing a referral program similar to what Dropbox did. They did an amazing job of PR very early on and throughout most of that company's life. And they also did really creative stuff like um like uh the craigslist stuff that's sort of become famous so it's they're not mutually exclusive for songkick um there were a bunch of different drivers of growth so um the first big insight that really like kind of clicked was that there was no canonical page on the internet for concerts or for a tour similar to how there was a you know canonical page for restaurants in yelp or canonical page for a tour, similar to how there was a Canon Uncle page for restaurants in Yelp or Canon Uncle page for a movie or director in IMDb. And when you build enough kind of value and compelling differentiated data to be the Canon Uncle page, you get all these other beneficial effects kicking in, whether it's social referrals or SEO or the industry linking to you or the ability to do distribution API partnerships. And that core insight, when we sort of got it humming, led to a lot of growth success. So we would do these partnerships with Spotify and SoundCloud and YouTube. We started to optimize our site so that Google could discover the content we had better. We started to build products for artists so they could link to Songkick more easily. The second big kind of growth factor came from mobile and word of mouth. In my opinion, the mobile app stores reward a gratifying user experience more than any other distribution platform in history. And so in that case, really, I think most of the growth just came from making the product more useful, easier to get into, more compelling. So we've benefited from three of these channels. Not paid, because we've not had an economic model that would allow us to spend money to acquire users. So finally, the economic engine. So this is how you make money from your users. You become a sustainable company. I can't say as much about that for us, because it's still a work in progress. And it's one of the reasons we're not in the pantheon of unicorns yet initially we bootstrap revenue by setting up these affiliate deals with ticketing companies so that when we found someone to show we'd link to the ticketing company and they give us a small cut for the transaction we generated so kind of similar to kayak or TripAdvisor and that's taken us to a revenue run rate of millions of dollars, but it won't take us to a revenue run rate of hundreds of millions of dollars. And I think it's always been clear what the optimal revenue model for us would be, which is just you discover the show and you buy the ticket at the same time from us. But that requires on us being able to scalably access inventory, which going back to what I was saying earlier about supply-side consolidation and the need to partner with the industry, that requires finding economic alignment with the people who currently hold the rights. So it's a work in progress, but it's quite exciting. In London, we actually have 25% of all the concerts in London you can now buy tickets to in a few taps through your Songkick app. So it's quite exciting watching that develop for us. apps through your Songkick app. So it's quite exciting watching that develop for us. Finally, there's the team that you build and retain to solve all these problems. This is our team pushing a bus up a hill when it broke down on the way to a festival, which is probably a reasonable metaphor for kind of startup life. So each of these things I just talked about, gratification, growth, revenue, and team, they're all dependent on each other. So if I disperse it mathematically, you know, I've got this unicorn-ness is gratification, the power of growth, the power of revenue. Gratification is dependent on your team, your economic engine, and your growth, because you need an amazing team to build a world class product. And you need revenue to sustainably pay for those people's salaries. And in many cases, having an economic model actually allows you to provide more value to your users. And finally, some products get better with more people using them. So you may actually need growth to be able to offer a compelling experience, so social networks, marketplaces, et cetera. So the gratification engine depends on your team, the other two engines. The next thing, growth, that is actually also dependent on other stuff. So your ability to recruit a growth team, obviously, is a big factor. If you have a revenue engine, an economic engine, you're able to access one of the most powerful sources of growth, which is being able to pay for users. And a key point to make here is it's a lot easier to grow by spending money than not spending money. And if you want a simple example of that, just think about the number of world-class, highly effective SEO people out there in the world compared to the number of people who can set up an AdWords account or buy ads on Facebook. Most importantly, if you don't have a great product, you won Yn bwysig, os nad ydych chi'n cael cynnyrch gwych, ni fyddwch chi'n cael y fwyaf pwerus a'r driver ffynediol, y llawr o sgwrs, ac ni fyddwch chi'n gallu adeiladu ar yr holl beth gwych sy'n digwydd pan mae hynny'n gweithio. Felly, fel enghraifft o sut mae'r peth single video page on YouTube within a few years of Songkick's life. And that didn't come about because of some epic biz dev introduction from VCs or hustling our way there. It came about because a product manager at YouTube was using Songkick and thought it was awesome and emailed our support email to say, can we do a partnership, can we do something here? So they're very interconnected and you have to get all the bits to work to get one of the bits to work. And finally, the caliber of the team that you can recruit and retain is hugely dependent on how big a problem you're solving and how much your team kind of feel like they're building something awesome. And there are some kind of funny paradoxes in the startup world. For example, the most sophisticated, best VCs who are most in demand are actually sometimes the best people to go to if you want to fund a really crazy, hard idea. And that's because they may have more confidence from all the success they've had to be more contrarian rather than just following the herd of what everyone else seems to be jumping on. And similarly, it seems to be the case that if you're more likely to get really amazing people that want to work on something that's a hard problem, that's not a trivial thing to solve. But great people also yw bod yn fwy tebyg i chi gael pobl hyfryd iawn i weithio ar rywbeth sy'n broblem anodd, nad yw'n beth anodd i'w gael. Ond mae pobl gwych hefyd am cynyddu cyfnod. Ac os nad ydych chi'n tyfu'n gyflym, byddai'n anodd i chi ddod â'r cyfleoedd cyfnodion. Ac yna, that. So the team again depends on these other three things. Make a similar bunch of arguments about why the economic engine is dependent on the others, but hopefully you get my point. So unicorn-ness is gratification, the power of growth, the power of economic. Gratification is depending on everything. Growth is dependent on everything. Teams depend on everything. Economics depend on everything. AKA everything is connected and you're watching the first season of True Detective. I've labored this point and hopefully not bored you to tears because to me it seems like one of the most important things to understand about the game of startups is it's all connected and you need to get all these key pieces working in concert to build an exceptional business. And the earlier you figure out the whole system, the earlier you get on the path to building the next Dropbox. I was just browsing Adora's LinkedIn while I was waiting to talk. And she has a computer science degree and experience making products that people like. She also worked at Slide on all their growth stuff. And she seems like she did some sort of master's economics. So, you know, all three engines, there's an element of insight there that allows you to jump faster to something that really works holistically. So again, the earlier you figure out all three of these things, the faster you get on the path to being the next Dropbox or Airbnb or Google. So the last thing I want to talk about is that all of this takes time and is very hard and you can't give up. And that's, you know, that's, I think, fairly commonly given advice in startup land. So, I wanted to give you a few things to take away about how to develop your resilience and how to keep going. The first thing is it usually does get better if you keep going. I remember the bleakest point in Songkick's life was around December 2010 and nothing felt like it was working. We went into Christmas, we had this brutal board meeting and we agreed to try a bunch of new things at New Year and I remember just being so miserable that whole Christmas. That's what our graph looked like at that point in time. We had some growth but then we built ac roedd hynny'n ymwneud â'r graff yna ar hyn o bryd. Roedden ni'n cael rhywfaint o gynyddu, ond wedyn, ar gyfer y newyddion newyddion, doedd dim yn digwydd. Nid oedd unrhyw un yn ei hoffi eu hachub amdano. Nid oedd yn gwella pethau. Roedd yn ddifrifol iawn. Nid wy and I look at our growth graph, and I remember that that was the point that it felt that bad just before a lot of things started to work. And now we have 10 million people using us and the graph looks a lot better. So it usually does get better if you keep moving. And a founder of a startup, of a great company, told me once, you know, survival is a growth strategy. And his was like a platform that essentially had grown when everybody else gave up. He just kept getting all of their users and gradually got to this crazy, crazy, crazy size. But I think the best thing about surviving is you get to see new platform shifts and changes in the market more broadly. So, for example, we've experienced the shift from desktop to mobile, and that's been a really, really positive thing for Songkit for lots of reasons. And everyone likes to talk about how new startups get built when new platforms emerge so for example uber getting built on the back of you know mobile but things that are already working can also suddenly work a lot better so Shazam and Pandora were companies that were eight and seven years old at the time that the iPhone launched. And at that point in time, I think they'd kind of been great but not spectacular breakouts. And the iPhone changed that. I mean, I remember hearing from the Pandora guys that the iPhone doubled their growth overnight. So platform shifts sort of expand the set of startup visions that can finally be fully realized. So just let that be another reason to sort of push through the hard times that the environment may get better. Another thing I would recommend doing is trying to articulate why you believe you're doing important work. And I think a good way to do that is to sort of do a five whys analysis on your motivations until you get the root cause. And Michelle, Pete and I did that a few years back and wrote them down and they're good to refer to when things get hard. So the whys for us were we believe that live music can change your life. And we believe that at its best, live music is this pure, intimate experience between you and an artist. And we believe that's what music's all about. And we want everyone to have that experience. And at present, seeing live music is too niche an experience because it's inaccessible because it takes too much effort and we believe that fails artists and fans and it's happened because the industry's lost sight of what's most important which is that intimacy and connection between the two of them so we don't accept that we'll create a better future for live music where the online experience will be true to that feeling of being there so when you when you're, if you write that down when you're feeling good, you'll have something to refer back to that will kind of remind you of like the fact that this isn't about, you know, whether you're kind of the next cool company on TechCrunch or whatever else. It's about the fact that you really earnestly want to solve a problem. When you're really low, spend some time with your users. The happy ones will remind you of why you're doing it. And the unhappy, disengaged ones will sort of transform this sense of kind of abstract, impending doom into this more practical feeling of there's something to fix. And our product team actually ended up knocking a wall in our meeting room and creating a makeshift user research lab that helps to set a regular tempo for getting users in and having your whole team watch the experience they have with your product as individuals, not in kind of an aggregate Google analytics-y way. Finally, you know, start your company with people you can count on when shit's going sideways. I think it's really hard to know that about someone without a real foundation of friendship. So I thoroughly endorse YC's thing about building on top of a longstanding and trusted relationship. I've been incredibly lucky to have two amazing co-founders in Michelle and Pete and an amazing team of people, many of whom have been here, they're right from the start. And I think, you know, I can't really imagine how you would get through some of the hard times without those relationships so in summary if you're going to do a start-up in the entertainment industry or any highly consolidated industry you'll probably need to work with the industry more than you realize so get started on that early on understand as much of the game and what drives success before you start building and find ways to nurture your resilience because keeping going is usually the right answer. Thanks. Thank you.