 So Laura, why now in terms of longevity? What's happened to make you raise a fund and start investing in research and companies? Yeah, so we think this is an insanely important part of the story because if you were Aristotle and you were like trying to start longevity fund, you would have a terrible time. It'd be like the worst idea. And so timing is super important. Why now, for the first time in 2,000, 3,000 years, is it the correct time to work on longevity? To us, a lot of that comes back to tooling and what's available for us to use. Prior to the 1900s, if you wanted to impact biology, maybe you should have been a physicist. Worked on optics, helped make the 1900s, if you wanted to impact biology, maybe you should have been a physicist. You know, worked on optics, helped make the first microscope. And like Robert Hooke, a physicist, you know, discovers the cell. So, you know, there's so much that comes from physics and other disciplines into biology to push it forward. But then I think in the 1900s, something kind of fascinating happens, which is that for the first time, there's kind of this acceleration of tooling, right? X-rays, NMR, all these things, you know, the cathode ray tube discovered mass spectrometry, but, you know, by this guy trying to find the mass of the electron, which is so cool. And so all these physics tools start coming online, but then also more biology-driven tools. And so really, I think, you know, and we can get into this more specifically maybe later time, but kind of what's excited us is just seeing the tools available to characterize, like, life become available for the first time ever. Right? You know, for all millennia, you had Darwin and, like, Mendel talk about genetics. And, like, there was no knowledge of what was actually going on at the ground truth level. And in 1953, for the first time, you have, like, the link between molecular biology and what we're looking at with microscopes and genetics and this concept of heredity, which is just super exciting. And what caused you to jump in? Well, A, I think I was born in a very lucky time. I think you always have to be cautious or a little bit concerned if you believe that about yourself. Why now? Should it really be the lucky time? But then I think also, as a kid, A a just like had a lot of relatives that were you know sort of aging and that was you know very striking but also you know really um wanted to solve cancer and i was i remember talking to my dad about this and i was like oh like i want to solve cancer he's like well you know cancer is a subset of aging so if you want to solve cancer you just like you know solve aging and like take care of all these other things as well. And that just, you know, that coupled with kind of like hanging off my grandma's, you're like, that just kind of made sense to me as a kid. I was like, okay, well, like, you know, I guess I'll go solve aging then. Like that's the biggest problem. Because cancer is not the number one cause of death in the U.S., right? It's heart disease. speak. So, you know, like once we got rid of infectious disease, like it really became the case like aging, which wasn't previously like necessarily the biggest issue, sort of like rose to the forefront. And so that kind of, I mean, this sort of just, I think made sense to like a small child that that was important. Huh. And so why raise a fund rather than, you know, just go for curing cancer? So the thinking at the time was possibly in a good way, like emperor has no clothes, extremely simplistic. You have to understand, so I was at MIT and I was a sophomore. Yeah. And I was also 16. And I had maybe $1,000 in my bank account. And so knowledge about the financial industry, relatively low. My dad had been a public investor, so I kind of knew a lot about like the idea of investing in things like that. That was a generally good thing to do. And I'd worked in like aging labs for maybe four years. And I think the striking thing was just like there, there was just like no money to like make drugs. And it's kind of hard, you know, like when you're in a lab, you just have like no idea what's going on in the outside world. And so I would like ask venture capitalists, like I would, you know, call up a few in the phone book and like you know a few responded and so like had these like random conversations and just be like you know i'm just curious i'm a student can you like tell me more about like how this industry works like you know are you funding aging therapeutics and like none of them had heard of like aging therapeutics they're kind of like asian therapeutics like what did you say um and so that was just very striking that like something that i personally believed like on the technology like not just like from a mission perspective like on the technology side was like super exciting was kind of generally not really like looked at a lot by these folks who are supposedly like the great translators of technology um and I think also it kind of made sense like you know the first ever mutation found to really extend worm lifespan was 1983 the next was like 1993 and so really the field started about like 20-30 years ago it. It kind of made sense. If you think about how long it takes for fuels to get traction and become known, okay, there may be less than 100 good labs in this space. Maybe people just haven't had enough time on the venture or investment side to understand that this is really cool and important. And so then it kind of made sense that you might want to start a fund if that were the case, like help more drugs kind of get started out of the space. So in other words, like the big pharmaceutical companies are not investing in these. They weren't at the time. So this was like five years ago or something. Seven years ago. Yeah. So things have really changed. You know, seven years ago there were like maybe like three companies have been started or so that had like the aging brand on them. There was like zero people interested. Like Arch Ventures was one of the few that were like taking risks. There's like maybe 10 million invested like that year in total into like the space, right? And like in the past four years, we've had like 10 billion plus. We now see like 300 companies per year. So it's just really changed. Like it's very, very striking to have watched it go from like zero to like what it is today. Yeah, now it's totally a trend. Hopefully it sticks around um so you have a not a million but many questions for you i think like top of the list for me is what you do personally yes this is probably the most common question um and i think all my friends will always say that i answer this terribly um because i you know i'm kind of like a you know i come from a semi-scientific background and so like we like to get like to the ground truth of things and it's just really hard like there's just like a million like if you start reading mouse studies on longevity like you will find mouse studies that say like if you decrease like they've done this like really cool experiment where you take fat and sugar and and um protein and you decrease the level of each of them to keep a total calorie intake the same you can kind of test like which component of diet is like contributing to longevity and they did this and they like did kind of like a full matrix. And they did lifespan studies for each of the different proportions. And what they found from that study in mice was that decreasing protein was the number one kind of thing that increased longevity. And so from that, you might infer that maybe less protein is good. But at the same time, it doesn't seem like maybe if you work out a lot, that would be different. And so I've come to the conclusion that kind of like, you know, I have some theses about like what is good and what is not good, but it just, as a scientist, it's really hard to say that there's kind of like a good kind of like real kind of like hypothesis there. Okay, and so- So I'm sure like not a lot of like, just despite like reading probably more papers on this than like most people in the world, it really is something where um i i don't see things that i think are extremely clear kind of like uh movers for longevity uh on like the diet level obviously that like aren't compounded by other things so what's your diet um i well i've tried a variety of things i think right now it's just kind of like the sort of like bare minimal like try to eat low sugar um personally trying low protein um just because i think that is somewhat supported by kind of like literature yeah um and uh low protein is like a gram per kilogram per day um i think just sort of like uh not it's it's a good question like what what is the correct per person and also if you exercise yeah um i actually once tried to calculate out if you exercise like how much protein would be required to like replenish all of your myosin and actin proteins. And it's kind of fascinating. I think that there might actually be like, you know, up to a hundred fold increase in power, like in your muscles where like, if they all fired at the same time, you get like, you know, sort of a lot of power. But I mean, I don't have any strong recommendations on diet. I read basically all the studies. Yeah. And I think maybe low protein, low sugar are both good. Intermittent fasting seems to be somewhat supported. Are you doing that? I've tried it. I think it's kind of hard to maintain if you have a graduating sleep cycle. Yeah. But yeah, I wish I had better recommendations for that area. Okay. And in terms of supplements, are you doing anything? There's a variety. People recommend everything from NAD+, all the way through to Metformin for the more adventurous. I think that... So we actually have a secret list at the fund of on-market drugs and things that we think, based on our body of evidence, might be having an impact on lifespan. And we're monitoring them. Some of them I personally think would be like intriguing to take we don't release that list just because we were afraid that if we did and kind of like somebody acted on it and kind of like didn't work out well for them that's like you know a terrible thing to do to like them um but we have a secret list of things that we think are like interesting okay um and i but i think for the 80 plus though there's there's some evidence of like positive effect there but we haven't seen great lifespan studies showing like a large increase in lifespan so that'd be like my one concern there okay cool because yeah in in the the worm and mouse studies there have been like you know a hundred percent increase in lifespan right with certain uh so so worm studies um we've gotten up to tenfold reported um you know possibly more um that's by decreasing a gene product though so that's kind of like if you want to go and take a gene therapy, or we had such a thing from birth, possibly that would work. But probably the effect would be a lot smaller. In mice, we've gone about it up to a two-fold increase, and that was a combination of a mutation and restricting the total caloric intake of the mouse. Okay, down to what relative? I don't remember for that study. On average, I think people will do CR to about 30% of normal caloric intake, but it really varies. So if you take 40 different, and this is where it gets complicated. You take 40 different, genetically different strains of mice and you change their diet in the same way, half will live shorter and half will live longer. And so, you know, I used to, as a kid, I was like, oh, you know, like there's a simple answer. And I think that there is. But I think it is a lot more sort of reliant on genetics and other things than we'd like to think. How long have your family members lived? How long have my family members lived? Your grandparents, great grandparents. Well, my grandma is still going. She's in her mid-90s. That's a good sign. Yes, exactly. So they've all lived, you know, about age 80 or above. So, you know, hopefully. How about yourself? How long is your family? Not 90. So, yeah, we'll see how it goes. I need it more than you. Right, yeah. What would you say the number one health hack that you'd recommend to your your audience would be i mean well i mean i've done a little bit of blood work so everything's kind of anecdotal and based on feel but i was vegetarian for eight years oh interesting for environmental reasons and then i realized that i i had like developed this entire vocabulary around cheating uh so for example if i was traveling it was like cultural meat and it was it was allowed uh and then you know if i was like you know over over your house and like you made chicken or something i'd be like uh whatever i'll have it i see and at the point it was like twice a month i was like i'm not vegetarian anymore so then i started eating more protein uh but really just more eggs yeah and then i felt a lot better but really the main thing thing is sleep. Yeah, no, that makes sense. I will say that actually one thing that's interesting on the health plan front, I think people have this like intuition that when they feel better, that's a metric for something that's good for them. I think it's actually not true. So if you look like a lot, to some extent, like, you know, maybe you want to optimize like robust, very you want to optimize like robust very cheerful lifespan in which case like like tautologically it is yeah um but most of the time or a lot of the time when you uh see our mice or you do other things like make them live longer so total number of years increases they're not kind of like as happy on a day-to-day basis like a little bit thinner a little bit more lethargic in some cases so i think it's kind of like you know whenever someone says like i really feel better because i'm doing x i I'm always like, oh gosh, I wonder if that's the correct thing. Maybe, maybe not. Hard to say. When people talk about healthspan in my mind, it's very correlated to how I feel. If I was going to do caloric restriction and every day would suck for 90 years, I would opt out. I mean, I don't know if there's a drug. For instance, I know a lot of people who have experimented with keto and other random diets, and they're just caffeinated to the gills. There's low energy. That's so funny. That's one thing you can do. Oh my gosh, yeah, it's hilarious. Yeah, so I don't know. But one thing I've been curious about, there seems to be relatively limited data on actual humans. Yes. So how might someone set up a study? Is it even possible now, Or is everything still regulated? There is this fellow near Barzalai who's working on what's called the TAME trial. And the point of that is to assay the effects of this drug, Metformin, which is a very old diabetes drug, on sort of markers or biomarkers of aging that he has kind of like put forward. And the cost for that will be about $60 million. And if people do it, the idea would be, okay, well, here's our first pass at testing aging in humans. And so finally, we have some more data. The way that trial was sort of motivated was there was this kind of large finding that in hundreds of thousands of patients, or I think about actually 70,000 in that population, from kind of like a UK study, if you look retrospectively, people who had been taking Metformin for decades, they had apparently like a little bit better kind of health span. So they had less age-related disease. The diabetics sit on this drug, even then they're kind of like non-diabetic counterparts who were not taking metformin. And so I think it's hard to say that study is like definitive evidence, but that kind of motivated all this sort of question asking of, could we really nail down in humans a trial to like test, you know, metformin in particular. That said, you know, I think that, you know, a lot of biologists will really kind of, you know, say, oh, it's very important to test things in humans. And of course it is, if we could do that, we would be doing it kind of all over the place. But I think increasingly over the years, and maybe it's just like I started out in worm biology, I'm kind of more and more excited about the animal kingdom. The animal kingdom is just absolutely awesome. We have one company in our current portfolio that's working on this, and they're amazing fauna. But there's such diversity of phenotypes, right? And how can we learn from other animals, as opposed to just our lowly selves? Because for example, there's naked mole rats and rats. Naked mole rats are pushing 30 on lifespan. We have no idea how long they live. Their mortality rate at 30 is not going up. So we're just watching these guys, waiting for them to start dying. And then rats, which have very similar physiology, live maybe three to four years. And so what on earth is different between these two animals, right? That's just absolutely fascinating. I think it's also important because, like, you know, a lot of, like, physicists and mathematicians, and I used to be this way, like, we're always worried, what if there's, like, inherent, like, limitation on, like, a complexity level? Like, what if, given a certain complex system, a certain rate of metabolism, like, you have to die because there's some kind of, like, you know, sort of theory about, like, entropy increasing over time and that, like, you know must strive and just like too complex like really intervene but then like you know these animals are basically the same size like have so like so many other similarities like it would just be very hard to maintain like that theory and also accept this kind of like large differential longevity yeah absolutely so someone asked a question that i thought was kind of funny uh yeah here we go so uh micah asks basically do you think immortality is going to be achieved by curing all diseases so in other words like living forever or like what's going to happen first that or are we going to just upload our consciousness to a computer and live forever that way i think that um so that that is a question that i used to get very interested in sort of like well you know if you like care about this like you're working on kind of like the biology yeah where do you work yeah exactly i think so the way the the way i kind of think about it which is not a good answer but it's like a framework for thinking about this question is i think about biology like a set of tools right um so you and you can you can kind of see this in like the the kind of like um things that have become available recently for us to um use to affect human health what i mean by that is like, you know, prior to like, you know, the 1900s or like even like just the 1980s or maybe like the 1930s, like the first time you really put this marker, if you wanted to make a drug, it was like a small molecule, right? Like it was like, you got a plant, you found something from a plant that was useful, or you like put some salt in a wound, which we realized that's a bad idea. Don't do that. Not very good for sterility. There are always things that we would do. But then in the 20th century, for the first time, we used proteins, insulin or antibodies created by our own bodies, or the bodies of the mice that we kind of cloned them in, to treat disease. And so we actually used something that came from life to treat a living organism. We now, just in the past three years, have landmark approvals and viruses being used to like blow up cancer. Literally, like these are called oncolytic viruses. There's new drugs using genetically engineered cells. You've probably heard of, you know, CAR-T and kind of like this whole kind of, you know, oncology phenomenon. Also stem cells being used. And so I think kind of like the final frontier of all of that, like use of kind of like biology's own system to do cool stuff is the brain understanding kind of like that system. But I think to lead up to that, you kind of will do so many things that it may be the case that like we kind of get there at the same time. So, you know, that's like the final frontier. And we solve it, but kind of like along the way, we've also kind of like done enough work on the other tooling kind of fronts that we get to kind of like to a kind of, you know, maybe we definitely impacted by kind of like the work up to that up to that time right exactly and and do you sense that there's like a strong signal at this point as to what might be the way that we you know a bunch of people ask these questions but like you know increasing lifespan like 20 percent like right if you had to put money on it obviously you literally put money on it yes what would be the most likely thing to take off the most likely thing to take off? The most likely thing to take off? In the next, I don't know, 50 years. So here's how we think about it. Like we have extremely strong confidence that it's possible to impact lifespan between like, you know, three months to maybe 10 years. Yeah. And, you know, obviously like, you know, different probabilities with what we have to. In fact, we're pretty certain that there are some things in the clinic already or on the market that with some probability are impacting lifespan. Like lifespan seems to be very malleable, you know, to a small degree. I think the larger question is like, well, you know, A, how many of those can you like put together to like get kind of the maximal impact from like that first wave? And then B, our thesis is that none of those things will be sufficient on their own to result in like an engineered lifespan so you have this first way of things like kind of work but like they're kind of limited like they have kind of like a maybe like 60 and that's like the max um so then the question is like how can you like go above that and we think it really all comes back to tooling and so that's where i don't know if i'm you you know, we're Aristotle or kind of like we're like Newton or like maybe like in the best case scenario, we're like Einstein or like, you know, someone today in the realm of physics in terms of like going to the moon or like you've tried to go to the moon and kind of like 1600s would be a little bit hard. More recently, maybe a little bit easier. But like, I think that's where we have some hope and optimism, but we're not as confident that there are things today that we'd point to to say that's going to result in kind of like unbounded engineered ability to kind of like impact longevity and that's why we also really care about about tools when we think about like investing in the space not just kind of the first wave of like awesome therapies that will be available sooner but like maybe aren't just kind of like engineerable right so you're kind of hedging if this is still a foundational stage right exactly i think we'd love to think that it is and like yeah like 1953 my argument for foundational stages would be like this is the first time ever in history that we have the link between genetics and microbiology like that happened 1953 that's pretty landmark maybe it's been 70 years so you're like well what happened in 70 you couldn't just have happened like right after 1953 but i think that'd be the argument for like that's why today makes sense from a like engineering perspective okay um and then ethically you know ryan hoover asked like about the ethics of longevity another uh jack fernandez asked like people want to actually want to live longer right do you have strong opinions on this or are you kind of stepping back so we get we get asked about this all the time and it was funny because when i started the fund i never thought that people would ask those questions yeah because to me the reason you thought it was assumed well because the reason we started the fund was to cure things like cancer and Alzheimer's. And so from our perspective, you would never ask, is it good to cure cancer? No one would ever ask that question that I've heard of, or maybe some people would. But then we realized that when people think longevity, they think about it as different than those things. And so I think from our perspective, i just um you know i i think it makes sense to cure like these diseases if we can um and so we we definitely wanted to do that and so like you know we would never deviate from kind of our mission i think you know from a broader scale it's kind of like two camps of like do you want to be like malthusian and you're thinking of kind of like you know the world is like a bounded place like you know it's really like limited resources or like kind of like davidutchian, like, you know, like, you know, we're on, you know, spaceship birth, but like, no, we're not actually like, let's go and like explore the cosmos and kind of like unlimited resources and energies like in all matter. I think like, just like kind of like from a philosophical standpoint, I'm more on the kind of the latter sort of camp. I like that kind of viewpoint a little bit better. But yeah i'm trying to get david on the podcast that would be i met him one time when he talked about it really yeah yeah would you have to like go to him and his house that's what i did when i met him that would be the best interview ever uh yeah he did one with sam harris that was kind of cool oh my gosh um but but really like in terms of having an actual opinion on this so there was a cool one um on the ethics mike asked uh how would immortality change society wouldn't we become more complacent since we have to quote forever to do things wouldn't that diminish our rate of innovation and since less new individuals are being created we would have less access to new ideas in other words like uh there are fewer newtons fewer einsteins and and sort of this is like yeah why the the basic income are or one of the basic income arguments right right allow for these people to succeed well so i think there are two implicit assumptions there one is that we understand how people are motivated and that their motivation stems from this feeling that like they will die yeah um and i think number two is this idea that like um people have an innate kind of rate of loss of new ideas of age kind of innate like loss of openness um and so i think you know addressing both those on the first point i think they're kind of valid questions i i don't i just i i don't think that that's true personally i I don't think that I'm motivated to do things because I know that I'm going to die. I think that perhaps everyone else is, and this is just kind of a personal thing, but I think I'm motivated by many things like curiosity, competition, sort of like personal growth, kind of like wanting to be better next year than was today, kind of like a sense of mission and importance, kind of like it's important to go do certain things. And I think if you ask most people i you know maybe they'd have different answers but i just you know i i'm curious if like death really is like the core kind of like motivator to do things um you know for everyone in the world like that that's one thing it might result in few people wanting to go to war which might be problematic if you kind of like want more war, more soldiers, or not if you would like less war. That'd be an interesting thing. But I think for that question, I just, I don't, I don't agree that we really understand like the core motivation of everyone on this planet and that that is by its sort of definition, the fear of death. I think the other thing that's interesting is sort of to the second point, the question of like loss of ideas with age, you know, there is a lot of like just cognitive like change with age, which is very fascinating, right? And sort of like, you know, biologically you do change. And like, you know, part of what we like really want to do, you know, is impact aging, but like a large part of it, like we can just make a cognitive enhancer. So you were like sharp until you're nine and then you, you know, dropped. Like equally like that's also be like an awesome product in of itself like just cognitive enhancement like alone would be great um and so i think i think actually people kind of like undercounting the value potentially you know if you're a newton absolutely brilliant and you help develop a field and maintain your 20 year old openness and kind of like fluidity for 100 years all the way through to age 90 yeah like what insane kind of ideas would newton be coming up with at age 90 yeah like with that kind of openness the counter argument there was like well he would just go and do alchemy and so then you have like you know young newton being great and then like old newton like doing alchemy the counter argument is like well maybe alchemy like caused the decline and thinking because like he was sniffing too much mercury so i want counter yeah yeah you almost won an argument for like outsider scientists who don't get discovered until they die and then they have like a hundred years of portfolio right and they're also just i mean like so many people um like you know some incredible offices at stanford who are still amazing and coming with extremely novel ideas like you know hawking publishing on like black holes and entropy right like this final paper yeah like on this completely novel fascinating field and like was that like you know was he declining would we like hawking to kind of like step aside for like the younger generation like can, can't we have both? I guess would be a question. So would you be a proponent of like, you know, giving the entire or like somewhat like fluoride in the water, putting like ProVigil in the water? I think that I'm never a fan of things that don't involve individual choice. So anything that like would be sort of a coercive or kind of like enforcement, then like, no, but I mean, so like if everyone would sign up for it, then like, um, I do think that, you know, there's like all this fascinating work on like cognitive enhancement, like just starting to come out today. And, and that's, we've seen a lot of companies that we're super excited about that have to do with kind of like that's part of longevity i mean if we just had a pill for like cognitive enhancement um you know that that in itself would be like absolutely wonderful like limitless yeah i mean everything i've tried it's yeah it works there are some times where you get this feeling that you're you know you're really good at like you're crushing email but you're not like the most like creative and you're just like sweating the whole day not coming up with the deep thoughts yeah yeah it's actually fascinating remember this book um daily habits no i would actually reckon i think you might like it it's um the daily habits of mostly writers and artists okay um but it's super fascinating the details kind of like how they live their life and it's just extremely variable but the most common thing is that they all wake up and go to sleep they have a very set routine um and when they wake up do work and go to sleep i'm already on that cycle um yeah i mean what a thing i have found is that my um my mornings are just much more valuable than my evenings especially in the middle of the day like i'm just kind of useless so i just work out at like two in the afternoon i'm curious why that is like it's either biological or psychological right sort of like you know you get like too much loaded into your brain and you don't want a thing or it'd be really fascinating if sleep played a key role there it would sort of like sleep does something biologically and perhaps psychologically that like somehow induces like an optimal state like right when you wake up but yeah have you tried it like sleeping in the middle of the day and then just getting back to work? I haven't, but that's an interesting idea. I'm curious what that would do. It's possible. Interesting. Yeah, I'm so curious about cognitive enhancement. We did a podcast with Rosalind Watts, who is at Imperial, about psychedelics. Oh, that's awesome. It was awesome. I mean, it's very similar. Actually, her research with Robin Carhart-H harris at imperialist in michael pollan's book oh interesting no i did i've heard so much about it though yeah it's really great but i mean it's kind of like cognitive enhancement in a very broad sense in terms of like trying to break you out of your old habits and like have more confidence increase openness and yeah exactly um and so are you are you taking anything to like any in a nootropic sense consistently? In a nootropic sense? No, I think I don't even do caffeine because the general thought is like try to wean yourself off of everything. Kind of like if you can perform great there, then like perhaps someday like there'll be a safe drug that comes on market that's worth trying. But yeah, I also like I like Marcus Aurelius like stoicism, the idea of none of the unnecessary things, but maybe there's some misapplication of that philosophy now that I think about it. Yeah, some part of that just makes me angry. Really? Well, it's like it all, you know, kind of like the caloric, I don't know, I'm a dichotomy. It's all stretched apart because I'm very much a creature of habit. Okay. That being said, like caloric restriction not having like a beer with my friends like all this stuff i just like yeah don't i'm not doing it i'd rather i'd rather work out an extra time but then but then some people say like that's bad for your heart right you know like you can't win you can't win yeah uh I don't know. I feel like in some ways it's like the devil I know and I just avoid other vices like texting while driving and smoking. That's interesting. What is like the thing that you do that you're the most proud of? Like the habit that is like hard for you to maintain that you nevertheless are kind of like quite happy to like be able to do i mean exercise is no problem because i go i go crazy without doing it right uh i think what's consistently the hardest to maintain is giving energy to the side projects that are creatively demanding oh that's interesting because i this is what i didn't expect i used to work for myself and now i work at yc and um obviously and uh there are obviously like you have you have so much energy in the day. And obviously you can push harder and get work done and be more disciplined. But I found that there are certain side project ideas that are just kind of too much to even think about. Oh, interesting. When I make progress on that, I'm very happy with myself. Because the side projects that are like, you know've like made like little sass tools and stuff and that's cool but it's definitely not the hardest thing and what like allows you to make progress on those projects uh just internal motivation like wanting to do it i think the uh what's always helpful is just imagine imagine yourself in 10 years and like look back oh interesting and then just use that as a metric for like what you want to would you be proud of yourself for having done that that seems like something like the the business framework of like you know when you're 60 and you kind of look back on your life yeah that's interesting but then but it's dude it's like who's to say what's going to lead to the next thing? That's great. So like, you know, all right. So before we did the podcast, like I was talking about working at the onion, right? Right. And now I'm here. Yeah. And you're like, that's not a standard trajectory. Right. So you can't really say authoritatively, like the best way to spend your time is X. say authoritatively like the best way to spend your time is x um but when i uh when i was a kid uh someone said to me like before you start working on something think about what winning looks like and that's kind of a framework for projects for me oh that's interesting um but i don't know that's a personal thing what other like hacks and motivations like do you have in your arsenal uh i don't i just don't spend time with people that annoy me or like stress me out okay yeah that's a positive thing um i uh i'm never busy but i I'm fine using that excuse. Oh, you're never busy. I always have time for my friends and the things I really want to do. And I just cut everything else out. So, I don't know. How about you? That makes... Hacks and motivations. I think it's always trying to keep the baseline pretty low. I think you can control your output, but you can't really control how the world responds to it. So it's kind of like if you're just like, all right, if I do good output, then that's great. And then however the world responds, can't control it. But being really happy when you do stuff that you can control is I think probably the biggest mental hack for for because i mean you usually you just can't control it's so hard because you're you're still pretty young how old are you uh 24 yeah yeah so i remember when i just moved out here i am how old were you then uh 23 three oh interesting and just come out of college or yeah so what happened was um i was in new york for college and then i lived there for like a couple years afterwards and uh my girlfriend and i split up and i was like i'd always wanted to live in california and new york was just like just like grinding at me and so i just moved out here oh interesting wow which has been cool and so when i did you have a job or something you just like moved out so the onion moved from new york to chicago and almost everyone left and so i started a company with my friends and we were doing these hackathons where developers and comedians made stuff together and it's like it was a total not startup total small business super fun yeah and uh we did one with twitter and so i moved out here for that thinking i would be out here for like months right now it's like whatever six years later um but what about california was like so different for you that you had to stay here well i love doing the outdoor stuff uh for sure okay uh but it's a trade i don't know everyone wants to talk shit both ways and it's totally a trade culturally it's not the same thing as New York but then if you're working in like tech this is where or entertainment stuff I mean New York's kind of a mix but there's LA it just seems so much more professional not in like the polished sense but like everyone is or like most people are here and that's cool that was cool to me like going to Not in like the polished sense, but like everyone is, or like most people are here. And that's cool. That was cool to me. Like going to these like, you know, coffee shops and seeing, you know, this person that I had only seen on the internet before. And I was like, man, all this shit's happening here. That's interesting. But I don't know. How do you think these have changed? And also, sorry, I don't want to take it, but how do you think these have changed in the past seven years? Or I guess, has it been seven years for you? Something like that. Yeah. What has been the biggest thing that's changed? Like, I gather both positively or negatively or neutrally. In myself? Or in the... In like the environment that you've seen from like... Oh, yeah. That's been the biggest shift. Oh, interesting. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's like if it's not this next election, it's the one afterwards. Like tech is the evil thing. Interesting. And what did you see what drove that or kind of? Well, in some ways, it's like an incredible amount of wealth being accrued to a small amount of people. an incredible amount of wealth being accrued to a small amount of people. They're young. And I think their amount of power is just off-putting to so many folks. Obviously with the Facebook thing. Girard, like you have like the person to vilify. It just feels like the new banker to me. And that's the, that's been the shift. Not a great precedent general i don't know because have you noticed anything um honestly i think it's kind of like in bio it's just you know no one ever pays attention to bio like we're just all the way over here kind of like you know working on things that take a really long time and are very like hard and expensive and some people like oh yeah they're still over there like still working on drugs um and so i don't think there's as much. And there are very few, weirdly, there are very few billionaires in biotech. I think this is something that was very striking to me when I first came out. I was looking for people who were amazing and also had made a lot of capital in biotech. Because those are the people who would be successful and know how to build business as well. At least it was my thought. And there were think one of them was like a former salesman. It's like the most informative meeting I ever had about sales, where he was just like, cause I was trying to understand like, how do you sell a business or an idea? And like, you know, from MIT, it's like, you know, complicated, like read a textbook about it and like, right. And he was like, you just sit the person down and tell them what to do. I was like, okay. Now I think I understand how this like whole area of like life, you know, how to communicate a little bit better than I did previously. That's so funny. Yeah, I really hope more of these companies, I mean, they are popping up already. Like you've seen Longevity, Biotech. And if there is any kind of lull in the ecosystem, it's just going to be like fertile ground well i think there was like there's been historically a lack of like founder-driven companies yeah and like obviously the funding environment has changed to make the like more likely to happen like the next couple years yeah but it's just so strikingly it really is different when you have like because you like i think if you look at like the wealth created in tech and in biotech it's like you really see the distribution going so much more to venture capital, I think, than to founders. And that's been a really weird thing to observe on first coming here. Why is that the case? Do you have different terms than normal VC funds? Well, I mean, for our funds? Yeah. I mean, if that's a strong opinion you have, what are your terms? Yeah. Well, by definition, we have H1, which is similar to what you folks are working on. That's founder-driven. That's sort of trying to get people to sort of leg up and promote grad students and postdocs as the founders and drivers of the company and not try to replace them. I guess like some other firms, which I think is a fair strategy if that's something that's been your bulwark for decades. But I think marketers would say it's similar to what's happened in software, right? Like, you know, you had this first wave of kind of, like, professional managers. You had kind of, like, a swing back to technologists. You had kind of, like, a swing back to the middle of kind of, like, now we'd like some more managers, please. But, like like you know who knows what will happen in the future hmm yeah because the that's interesting if it's a trailing thing from software because you probably know yeah so what's happened now is like maybe 10 years ago or when yc started it was incredibly rare for you to be able to just like pitch an idea yeah exactly now you can easily do that but more importantly you can i mean i hear crazy numbers from people leaving college and going to work at facebook or big companies and i think that's like overall probably bad for the ecosystem because like it encourages this like extreme risk aversion right and i think the the likelihood of lifestyle inflation and never starting something is high. But think about what enabled YC, right? AWS, from the outside, a huge part of it, right? The first ever ability driven by tooling to kind of spin something up really cheaply. And I think in bio, and it's like what everyone talks about, there really was this point where drop in cost of sequencing has been occurring over the past 18 years. But really up until the past two or four years, you could not get a $1,000 genome, right? That is a recent phenomenon. And so what argument would be, look at Illumina's revenues today. It's absolutely crazy how similar they are to Intel's revenues right in the 1970s. The parallel there is extremely strong. This is due to a friend of mine, who made me notice this, but there's this really striking parallel between the enablers of technology that we see in one segment and then what's happening in bio today. And who knows what will happen in the future, but there is an interesting parallel there. Hmm. Do you think there are people in labs? Well, actually, like what percentage of people working in labs do you think want to start companies? So this is the fascinating thing. So we were curious about this because if you look at the amount of funding that's available on the venture side to go into biotech in the past couple of years, it's insanely, I mean, it's double, tripled in the past couple of years alone. But the number of companies funded has stayed fairly constant. And so we're just looking at this like what the heck is happening here right and what's happened is like the number on the top end of like the median hasn't even changed it's like the top end of court like the corporate companies are getting more capital per company so it's like all this capital has come from lps because you've seen like you know the the nasdaq biotech index you go from like stagnant you know up until 2011 to monotonically increasing, except for a small dip. And then it's like, where do you put all this capital? There are no more companies to invest in. And so we were like, well, why are more people not starting companies? We went and talked to like 100 grad students and postdocs. And the answer they gave us was absolutely striking. It was like most of them, so maybe like 10% were worried about reputation risk, like they didn't want to leave, fail, and then go back. 80% had never thought about the idea of starting a company. They just were not aware that it was a possibility. And so you could argue, okay, maybe that's like they're not entrepreneurial. But if you think about in the 80s or the 90s, would you have gone as a CS student at Stanford and started something? Maybe. But maybe you'd have a lot higher of a barrier or barred to doing that, right? I think that's part of why she started to make that process easier. And so I think really what we've seen is just a lack of education and kind of like just availability of options to these people, which is like, makes you so angry, right? Like, you know, like you should never be forced or kind of like convince you something that you don't want to or that's not good for you. But you should be aware of like all the possibilities that are out there for them i mean it's i think the saddest slash funniest one i've heard is when someone often in like a hard science uh like lab or background they learn about yc and then think that we're just giving them loans and they're like oh no i can never do that oh yeah which is like i mean don't know. If you had no exposure to this, like why wouldn't you think that? I mean, like, and all of these myths exist, but I think the education thing is a good point. For the most part, people don't even know. That's absolutely crazy. Yeah, so you should talk about your, I mean, you have, dude, you have so many questions. But you should also maybe mention your project with Daniel. Because that maybe mention your project to Daniel, because that's relevant. Yes, yes, yeah. So I'm super excited. So my friend Daniel Gross started this really, really awesome sort of project called Pioneer. And what Pioneer is, is it's trying to find like the lost Einsteins of the world, which I think is like an awesome tagline. And I think Danny has a fascinating background in that he was kind of on track to join like the israeli army and then you know uploaded a kind of application to yc and and you know like basically like his whole life changed after like one flight out here and a meeting with like you know paul graham and cove sort of like this you know he's now this incredibly successful person but kind of like you know would he have had the same chance if not for like a lucky you know i think his dad forged him like an article about yc like that's how i found out about it right really i don't know i mean that i think that's one thing you mentioned so it's like there's this coincidence that kind of drove his journey and so the question is like you know how many people are are there out there that like with a small intervention could like you know drastically have like a different life course and so pioneer is a pioneer.app is this place where if you're anybody in the world and you have a project you want to work on, you can apply. It can be anything anywhere from kind of like, I want to have more of my high school friends do like science stuff all the way through to like, I'm 80 and I finally want to write my novel. And you know, there's a thing called the Pioneer Tournament where people work for about 30 days, kind of, you know, do their projects and kind of like the community votes like on their kind of like most kind of, you know, favorite people. And then kind of based on that, at the end, you know, a set of people are selected to like be flown to San Francisco. They receive about like a $5,000 grant and they kind of like join the pioneer community, which is kind of like this, you know, set of really ambitious outsiders trying to change the world. And so I resonated with this because like, you know, my personal story was coming from New Zealand at age 12, you know, based on like a random email i sent to like a professor here and it was the first thing i ever sent to like someone who was on a family member and she responded but if she hadn't responded and like that luck hadn't occurred then like you know where would i be i have no idea yeah um and so that's why i think it's just like pioneer is so exciting because it might help a lot and everyone who's listening like you should definitely definitely apply pioneer.app um just you know i think it unlocks so much potential like everyone in the world who like could be doing awesome things i think it's so cool yeah just enabling people to like have the the confidence thing has been the biggest surprise for me at yc oh interesting i think a huge unspoken part of why yc is successful is that it gives people the confidence to do their thing right and they're often like i mean sometimes it's insider you know like tracked like i went to stanford whatever uh but sometimes it's like total outsider people and it works out and i think that like yeah man without systems that give people that that little extra push a lot of people will never do it ah interesting it is counterintuitive yeah i mean it's crazy like because i do these office hours occasionally with people who are interested in applying, right? And they're awesome. They're great. And all it takes is like that one meeting where you're just like, you're good enough. You can do it. And that's it. That's so fascinating. And then they apply. Huh. It's crazy. Interesting. Yeah. interesting yeah i mean i think one of the fascinating things that that dan is going to run into is sort of like how do you give that to like how do you scale that feeling of like transmitting confidence it was like you know it's yeah it's non-trivial well you asked me about podcasts before we started right and um so this is like a crazy side effect of podcasting because it it makes you feel and the thing it makes you feel like you know someone really well um but the reality is you kind of do and so that like that relationship of someone as like whatever just like friend or mentor or whatever huh is enough to be like oh like i kind of get this i can be myself with them and i can kind of just like express whatever i want to do but then there are totally like weird elements for me like i'll be like in the bathroom at demo day literally i'll be in the bathroom at demo day and like someone will like tap me on the back and be like oh man i like the podcast like cool not like tap me on the back and be like, oh, man, I like the podcast. Like, cool. Not now. That's so funny. Do people feel like they know you from hearing so many of your conversations with others and kind of like how you think about the world? I guess like because you said that one thing that you find fascinating is like how other people think about the world. Yeah. But I guess like the way that you ask questions must give so much information you build models or view systems or how stupid i am um yeah no i mean i uh i don't talk a ton about myself i mean i do but yeah it people get the sense and i was actually thinking about uh talking to my friend about this this morning of like what is it about the how am i different on the podcast versus in real life because there's there's like some distance for both of us right there's like going to be some dissonance there right and i'm curious about like how to best merge the two um and i haven't figured it out yet because i actually don't know what the what the gap is so you don't know what your i needed i was i was about to text him and i didn't. Huh. Yeah. Because, I mean, you seem pretty kind of like on the surface similar. But, yeah, I guess it would be hard to know without long period of observation. Oh, have you listened to it before? No, just our 15-minute conversation before we started and then kind of like. Oh, right. But I guess basically it's the same thing. Yeah, maybe. Huh, interesting. Yeah, I don't know it'd be better if you were more like the person that you like yeah like what what authenticity do you think would would bring like that like you don't have kind of now i'm curious so in some ways i'm just selfishly interested in like making it something that feels more like me. And it's my thing. Right. You're always curious about like gains, you know, what can make the show better. Right. And when I think about the podcast that I like, you know, things like Rogan, stuff like that. I mean, obviously like that's not fringe, but I imagine, and this is again like projecting because I've never hung out with him. Oh. I imagine that it's like very close to what hanging out with the person is like. And then when I watch the podcast and me sometimes, I can tell that I'm nervous or not as like, I don't know natural as normal do you think it's the environment like if you if you made this like feel like you're living in that it would be it would be slightly different or um yeah it's possible yeah it's totally i mean i think one thing that would be beneficial is like hang i mean you're this is you know you're great so it's like very chilled it's very easy yeah but sometimes like uh hanging out with someone beforehand oh i see so it feels like you have a conversation and then it just continues into yeah and in the uh my desire to keep it like on topic right can make it less natural than it could be right that makes sense yeah you know what i mean yeah because you always come back to like one thing but then maybe like that's not actually the the organic way that it would have gone right because i mean like what actually this would be a good test because i'll put this one out and people like dude what the fuck are you doing stay on topic with the longevity stuff yeah i don't know yeah that'll be interesting i don't know it's tough uh because are you a podcast person i actually am not like i really only do books and papers because podcasts are kind of annoying like you can't fast forward through them easily and kind of like use your eyes like figure out if like they were transcribed then i might read them but yeah which you can some do we do but not everyone but then i also feel like i don't i think there's like something about being decorated you know because if everyone's listening to the same podcasts and you go and like spend the same amount of time reading like people like the greeks kind of like you know like what the cities was thinking you might have like very outdated information that's like not very informed you know about today but you also might like i guess get a similar feel for how somebody was but have it be like more decorrelated and therefore um ideally kind of like more um sort of like maybe give you like a better viewpoint than the normal i think you should i think it's like i mean dude the amount of times i've heard people reference Sapiens or Charlie Munger, I just can't deal. I mean, they're great. They're awesome ideas, whatever. But everyone's consuming the same media. Yeah. And I think it's interesting because if you don't and you try to understand it from first principles, which I think is like me. First principles itself being kind of like, I think that is often cited as like the good thing but maybe not fully understood um it can be like quite different i think one thing most people don't realize like you know math and science often are like more artistic than they are kind of like logical but like everyone's trying to like frame things like a logical process so yeah well because it's i think a counterintuitive thing is that you well i mean it's obvious when you say it out loud, to pursue an idea in math or science, you have to be inspired to pursue it because you don't know if it's true beforehand. Exactly. No, it's so crazy. Like, I think it's fascinating. You look at Newton, right? Like Newton spent, he had this amazing year when he was 21. He like discovers all these things. And then he goes into like alchemy and the Bible. these things and then he goes into like alchemy and the bible and you're like what like where does that come from but i think part of it is like the kind i mean obviously it's something logical and analytical like he has these like books we're so curious but i think also like he has some kind of like a little bit like a mysticism like there's kind of this weird aspect of it's like a little bit artistic and we kind of like we forget that we're like oh yeah like scientists are kind of like robots um but they're they're really yeah they're they're really not definitely not definitely not all right so let's actually get some of these questions okay all right man so which ones appealed to you because we have so many um i think the ones that are like factual are good so just like the the research questions probably let's do that. So maybe we should rip through because I'm genuinely interested in a lot of these. And I read your longevity FAQ, which is awesome. It's very like Tim Urban, wait, but why style. Right. Maybe it's the drawings that got me. Yeah. But that was cool. Well, yeah. Yeah, that must have taken a lot of work yeah it's like you know just drawing the kind of like axes and then like three lines was yeah it was hard um so sam batash asks do you think there's going to be another step function change in human lifespan yeah since you know germ theory what. What's the next one? I think this is a super fascinating question and time to be alive. Because like, you know, it really, it's fascinating. You look back and kind of like, you know, germ theory is just like such a huge breakthrough. I think the one thing I think is lost also is like there's another breakthrough that's similar related, which is that like life comes from life. Yeah. Because like for all history, we think that there's a spontaneous generation of life. Literally up until right about that time. And then Pasteur's like, nope, nope, nope. These germs are coming in through the neck of the pipe. It's not. And so that was a huge breakthrough. And then obviously Darwin, also very important. I think the thing that we kind of have an intuition will be important in longevity that most people are kind of not paying attention to is like what it, it's going to sound way too philosophical, but really when you get into it, I think it's important thing. What does it mean to be alive? And at what point are you kind of differentiating between like the germline, which is kind of like your reproductive cells and the stone, which is kind of like your skin and tissue. Because there is an immortal line of living things that has been replicating since our first ancestor transmitted through our germline. When I have a kid, that kid does not come out and have the same amount of aging that I do when I have it. It is kind of brand new, right? And how the heck does that happen? And how do you fit that kind of paradigm? And if you take, for example, a bacterium, now there are some bacterium that do asymmetrically divide and possibly have some form of aging. But do you look at a bacterium and think that thing is aging? Maybe, maybe not. And so what is it about multilinearity and our germline and the differentiation between the two that's caused us to evolve or start this aging phenomenon? And given that, is it natural? Can we think about how our desire to live longer ourselves fits into that differentiation? Because nature has already solved for living forever on some level, on the cell level. And so what is it about our soma that is so different? And are there any things that we can repurpose and use for that? And so I think that area is going to be super, super fascinating. And then I'm also just broadly in love with the question, what is life? That's so interesting. Schrodinger in the 1930s writing these fascinating tracks, bringing Max Holbrook and others in. And so that and the people thinking about it, like Jeremy England at MIT are just absolutely incredible in their work. That's probably a longer answer you know we just think like I love this question because it's sort of like you know we spend so much time thinking about like the practicalities but kind of like the higher level order of like what would be the actual breakthrough I think that like that that are just like really interesting sort of tangent you mentioned um yeah giving birth is someone working or I mean someone but like are people working on uh extending fertility windows if you extend healthspan because that seems like you know if you could live forever right as a dude like i can just opt out right like i'm just like all right i'm not gonna have kids or i'm not gonna like in my mind that's the real issue right it's like allocating time yeah you know so if say you work aggressively until you're 30 yeah or 35 or whenever and then you have kids like all of a sudden you have to take care of this thing or it will die right um so being able to push that till you're 60 yep seems like really valuable yep well well so we we think that's that's that is um uh and so i don't want to say fascinating too many times it really is a fascinating area because you know there are some animals many in fact where like you know you have some octopi that lay their eggs and then their mouth disappears and they're like sitting on their eggs and like literally commit suicide and if you reverse like glandular action like gives rise to that they just keep on living and so it's like you have programs in essence all over the animal kingdom and like we're anthropocentric humans and so we say, oh, that doesn't happen to us. But if you think about menopause in women, what is that? That is a clocked acute onset of loss of health. Not just fertility, many other things. You get fat redistribution, you get bone loss acutely at the time of menopause. So many of the things get a lot worse in a clocked fashion. You kind of look at other animals like, oh, we're all like that. But really, are we that different? And so that area is just, and there are even some hormones that we're looking into right now that are involved in that process that we think are super fascinating for longevity. And so I think like that area is just, yeah, it's really, really interesting. So, yeah, I mean, is it more, I imagine it's more likely for it to be an artificial womb than re-engineering humans but maybe that's inaccurate i think the artificial womb is not one that we naturally look at because it's sort of like not you know if you solve that problem when it's just like solve longevity problem right um but i i think there there's actually you know that would be cool but like even just thinking about like what is menopause yeah right because like you know why is it so timed like what is the clock that like turns on and if we like turned off that clock like would it push backward is there some kind of natural and there's some like obvious answers for that but um i you know it just it really is and you think about how did evolution decide like that was the correct time um so that i think that i was just like yeah really interesting that's awesome uh all right jason troy asks what's the percentage of longevity attributable to lifestyle choices versus genetics and the progress of technology in influencing both. Oh, interesting. So there's a recent paper that actually came out, super fascinating by this guy, Yaniv Ehrlich in science. And what it did was they have a public database of heredity. So basically like a family tree, unfortunately doesn't have actual genomic data for each person, but you have a lot of lifespan data. So age, birth, and death dates, many generations back. So you can ask, what is the heritability of longevity? If your parents lived longer, are you also likely to live longer? I think prior to that we had about a 25% heritability figure. I think that dropped to about 11%. I could be off on this figure, but I think that paper was about 11%. Could be wrong. I think that's kind of the current statement from the field, is that that's our prior percentage longevity of triple-T genetics. I think that underestimates the potential impact of genetics on longevity, because do you have mutants that are long-lived in the population? No. I think it doesn't tell you how how much genes could be changed influence longevity um but yeah about 11 percent would be like the current estimate from the field okay there you go um fatih asks is blood transfusion so this is parabiosis right yeah is it a thing or just a hoax oh gosh no the blood boy question oh yeah the blood boys are like they false around um everywhere we go we're asked about the blood boy question. Oh, the blood boys are like art. They false around. Everywhere we go, we're asked about the blood boys. So one thing that's fascinating, right, is like, sorry, it's fascinating all the time. If you go back and ask, what are the first ever things discovered to impact longevity? You know, the tools that we had prior to 1950 did not allow us to do genetics. They did not allow, on the molecular level. They did not allow us to do any of the things that we now kind of focus on longevity. The one thing that Alex Carell in 1912 gets the Nobel Prize for sewing blood vessels together. And so what is one of the things that is tried in the early half of the 20th century? Because that's the only thing that we have the tools to do. It's like literally you're sewing blood vessels together between a young and an old mouse. Yeah. Literally, you're sewing levels together between a young and an old mouse. Yeah. And that does appear to have positive impacts. There are three or four nature and science papers that have come out recently showing there's some positive impact on the function of the brain, some positive impact on the function of the heart, some on muscle. So we do see positive impacts. I haven't seen to date a really good longevity study. So I think we've seen a lot of evidence of age-related phenotypes getting better, but I personally have not seen a study that really makes me super excited about the number of extra years. Lots of stuff to indicate that might be the case if done correctly, but I actually haven't seen that study done yet. There's been some studies published in the mid-1900s about parabiosis that I think I might have cited that kind of indicated an extension, but they're kind of like really replicated properly to really believe that. And so I think, you know, there's probably some impact on lifespan. Like, I don't think we have that well characterized yet. Hmm. Okay. So true, like not a hoax. Not a hoax, but not really in practice. I think people really over-focus on that because it's such an easy story to tell, right? Like, oh, vampires. Vampires. Oh, it's all just vampires. Okay, like, yeah, let's go do vampires. And you're like, no, no, no. There are like, you know, 60 different things that make, you know, X live longer. And like, you have to look at, you know, but people don't want to hear about like daft humans and receptor. They want to hear the pill oh actually i wanted to talk about rapamycin ah right uh yeah so my friend nicola wrote a new york article about it oh awesome i'm like i'm slightly terrified uh but can you can you just break it down um so so rapamycin is this is this um really really uh interesting drug discovered on rapa newy the aisle in a soil sample as many many drugs were um and you know kind of what it does is uh many things but but i think one thing that's been focused on is an impact on what's called mtor which is a protein um that's part of kind of two different complexes of proteins um and so you know the problem with rapamycin is it has a lot of kind of like side effects right it's originally developed as like you know maybe immune suppressant in one use and so do you really want to be taking that like you know continuously probably not um there's a lot of doctors you know if you ask kind of like a subset of kind of people who specialize in crazy things that might actually work in longevity a few of them will say like pulse rapamycin so taking rapamycin and very kind of you know cute doses but then like on a schedule not continuously is a good thing yeah um and i think that think that we don't see that being disproven or implausible. It is, I think, a risky endeavor on some level. One thing I would say is there are several companies trying to develop much safer versions that do the same thing, so have the positive benefit, don't have all the other negative effects. And so I personally would just wait until those get a little bit farther along. But I mean, Rapid Mycin is kind of reported. I think the other fascinating thing is like, I don't think we have a great feeling for what the max is on the lifespan that's possible with rapamycin. Like the question is like, if you dose it up, like what's the maximum dose? And at what point do you start to get like decreasing returns on longevity? It's not clear that we've actually hit that barrier quite well um that's the other fascinating like sort of thing interesting what what about um i've heard people taking testosterone and like that is debated over like you know maybe it increases health span but it actually might shorten lifespan no we get a lot of you know there's a lot of people like we're in a low t society there's also i think a lot people taking growth hormone um you know for longevity yeah and when i first when i first saw that in kind of like an airplane magazine, I was furious because in worms, if you knock out the analog of growth hormone receptor, they live longer. And mice like dwarf mice are the long-lived mice. And within a species, not between species, but within a species, being smaller is actually correlated with longevity. But I think one thing there is maybe taking growth hormone makes an 80-year-old feel a lot better. It's kind of like a healthspan optimization. So back to that kind of like, do you feel better? That results in longer lifespan. But I don't think that's a great thing, obviously, to do for kind of like actual lifespan in general. Because to clarify, it can increase or encourage like cancer cell growth? I mean, there's possibly some minor thing there. cell growth? I mean, there's possibly some minor thing there, but I think for the most part, there's a not fully defined complex signaling pathway that seems to kind of be quite related to longevity that was first discovered in worms and then kind of like also characterized in humans. Like there's a subset of dwarfs, for example, who appear to, compared to their relatives, suffer much less cancer and metabolic disease. And that correlates with what you expect from mice. Like if you mutate mice to be dwarfs, they live about 60% longer than normal. Like 60%, pretty non-trivial. Pretty solid. Right. How much shorter would you be if you could live 60% longer? How much shorter? I'm not quantitative. I don't know. Not like 10%, obviously, but like, you know, between 50 and 70. I'm not actually sure for those mice how much smaller they were quantitatively. But I think the interesting thing is you can actually possibly decorrelate the being smaller with the effect. So it's not just a size thing, it's a signaling thing as well. Would you make that trade if you're one foot tall? The trade is positive. So the idea is you can decouple the being small with longevity like longevity benefits oh i know but i'm asking you would you rather would i make the uh yeah probably probably yeah yeah it's awesome uh so aubrey de gray another like kind of famous longevity person uh someone asked about them so chris asks he's mentioned several times about replacing organs with new organic ones before they fail. Is that a reasonable idea or would they more likely be replaced with synthetic ones? Oh, interesting. I think so. This is an area that we're still building. It's like maybe too late to be like seven years and still thesis building. Yeah. But I think there are so many things that have to go right for that to become like the obvious thing to do. In some ways, it's like the oldest version of aging right and that like you know back to our friend alex carell and his Nobel prize but like you know he is doing the first ever kind of like sewing up kind of like the organs and kind of like let's get a you know little if you read his paper that's like let's just grab this like dog kidney and like Aubrey's proposing is the oldest, most kind of worked on idea. But then I think we also, we just haven't seen that done well on the rejuvenation front a lot recently. And I think we're still full understanding. There's some things where if you get an organ from somebody who's had cancer, for example, there's a small risk that 10 years later you might also incur like some kind of negative event um just things like that i think we're still understanding kind of how to how to weigh those those risks but i think it's fascinating it's a surprising fact that it is you know sounds the most futuristic but it's actually the most kind of like old method of kind of like considering working in the space right well you're just like take the part out put in another right to go yeah yeah um all right so i have a very important question so micah said you did a cookie diet is that true yes yeah uh how did that go um i think it was pretty informative in that uh you know again i wouldn't recommend anybody to like go eat just cookies but were these like fancy health food cookies no no so the reason i did it was my friend had claimed that he had only eaten whipped cream and bacon for a month and that this was possible of course it's possible yeah right but then he was like but i actually feel pretty good too and i thought that it was total bs and that he uh probably i mean he's a very smart and like you know uh conscientious person so i was like well like either he's a very smart and like, you know, conscientious person. So I was like, well, like either he's like very different than I really thought he was, or that's possible to do. And so I wanted to test it. And so I tried that and I was like, well, you actually kind of can, and you kind of feel fine. And so then I was just like curious, like if you took any random thing, like any random food object, like just ate that for a month, like what would happen um and uh the cookie diet like worked very well but i just for the long term it seemed like probably not a good idea so switching off of that to like a lower sugar diet it's probably a good idea did you were you doing blood tests or resolved by feel no no i should have done blood tests that's funny yeah there was this um well-known long distance hiker named andrew skirka a bunch of blogs and stuff and he's uh pretty well known for having kind of extreme like he just has a diet that can take anything it seems like so he was like interesting i think for a while it was just like snickers and pringles something like that that sounds great yeah which i mean i guess if you have enough toothpaste like on the pacific crest trail you're fine yeah you have to kind of wonder though like like how much worse that would be then like one thing for example is right i think that like a lot of for example eating meat maybe the worst part of me is like if your animal was stressed like had like a lot of the incorrect type of hormone directly before like being killed but actually like a more important thing like whether you're eating meat or not just sort of like what the kind of like minor things are that we don't think about like the axes that aren't like explicit like what those are but yeah hard to say hard to say cool all right my last question is are you seriously not doing anything really weird there's like no pills there's no weird food there's no crazy fasting um i mean i think that like apart from trying to eat the cookie diet so one thing that i was trying to do for a while was like i was trying to quantitatively understand you know because we're just like black boxes and like you intake some number of calories and like you should be able to calculate like where they all go kind of like how many necessary to like eat each day kind of like from first principles like figure out kind of like what optimal diet would be i tried to do that for muscle so i was like like how many proteins should we eat 30 minutes after working out the first problem was it's really hard like why 30 minutes after working out. The first problem was, it's really hard, like, why three months after working out is the correct amount of time? No idea, because sort of, like, you know, our cells are expanding during that period of time, but, like, it's hard to, you know, figure out. Also just got really down in the weeds of, like, how many amino acids would be required to, like, replace certain things. And I think I came out of that just kind of, like, very convinced, like like a kind of a lower level and that like i shouldn't have the time to kind of like really think about doing that for like a full diet um and so i think at this point uh until i have like you know maybe a full year to kind of like go back and understand that whole area better um it's kind of like just you know the obvious things because history is probably like a good teacher for like you know baseline health nice all right if someone wants to learn more about you, where should they go? Yes. So we run Longevity Fund and I'm just laura.longevity.vc. And anyone can reach out and we love to talk to you. Cool. Thanks for coming in. Awesome. Thank you for having me. you