 Well, I don't want to miss this story. You've got a sly grin. This is a stringy best story. So, this is not a stringy best story. So, little known fact, one of your first investors was Paul Graham of Y Combinator. Can you tell us about that meeting? What convinced PG to write you a check yeah it was um it was hilarious yeah so so it was actually it started at demo day uh and i imagine k12 pg was a guest exactly yeah it was lucky to be invited yeah right um not running the show yes so so uh and we'd gone uh we'd presented last and uh we'd been told the whole time that like you know the goal was to meet lots of people and to get them to come by and like talk to you right and so a good way to do that is to have like good metrics and we were lucky we had this good growth uh. But another way to do that is donuts. And so I had a box of donuts. And I said at the end that, like, hey, we're over there. There's a box of donuts on the table. Like, you guys should come by. And so the presentation's finished. And we were kind of milling around. We were at our little stand thing, hoping that people would pop by. And who walks over but um but pg and he uh goes to liam he's like hey i really it was one of the metrics we showed i think it was an engagement metric he's like i really like that like the look of that like do you remember what that was i don't remember the exact one i'm sure i've got it in the i think it was something about every three seconds uh oh yeah people giving feedback or something rewarding feedback or maybe i don't you remember than i do yeah i don't actually remember it's it's i've got it in the the pitch deck somewhere i'm sure you guys have it too but yeah um and so he's like i really like that metric can you show me like the what the growth curve and that looks like and um and liam like i can't even imagine what was happening for liam because he and I, we'd like read all of PG's essays for ages, right? This is like a legendary person turning up and just like having a normal conversation with you. And so poor Liam was just like, kind of like a holy shit, you know? He's like, oh my God, like my idol is here or whatever. And Liam's like, well, I don't have it to hand, but I can pull it or whatever. And PG's like, well, I don't have it to hand, but I can pull it or whatever. And PG's like, oh, yeah, you could just open terminal and do it in there, right? And like, he's like starts coaching him through it. And Liam's like, Liam's like very, like he's an amazing technologist. He's very competent. And he's like, oh, yeah, yeah, I guess I'll just do that. And so, but it's going to take a while. bit us in the ass, where PG's like, that's okay, I'll just stand here and have a donut. And so you've got this high-pressure data extraction happening for Liam. And in the end, Liam's like, look, better than this, I'll just email it to you straight after this. And so Paul gives us his email address, and he's like, that sounds good, and walks away. And so we go home breathlessly excited. I don't remember the rest of what happened at demo day um and we we craft this email to pg or liam does he's like hey here's the metric you want to look at the growth curve whatever and we send it off and like nothing like crickets and we're like oh i guess he wasn't like that interested like it was just polite right but but being relentless with this stuff two days later we email him again. And the numbers were small, so they're growing. We're like, look, it's grown like 3x. And again, no answer. And we keep doing this for, I think, the best part of a week. Every day or two, we're just emailing another chart, another chart. And then from Liam's email, and then i get an email from paul like a week later uh with one line in it where he says it is customary to respond to offers of funding and we're like what does this mean right like indeed it is yes yeah and we're like yes agreed do you want something else for that? And then we check out. I think Liam has some kind of super juiced up kind of Gmail inbox or whatever. And it's like in a spam folder somewhere. It's like two days in. PG's like, okay, I'm in. And like, whatever, I'll write you guys a check and just come around and pick it up. And we're like, so we basically spammed PG for the best part of a week after already having a lot of funding. And then, yeah, then Liam biked to his house to pick up the check, which was kind of cool. I think he was having a nap in the shed. That's great. Tell us about who uses ClassDojo and what problem they're trying to solve when they adopt ClassDojo? Yeah, I think it's important to understand why ClassDojo even exists. And then that gets the problems that we're actually helping people solve. So the reason we started the company really is because we kind of felt that most kids don't get the education that's going to make them be happy and successful. That's bleak. That's bleak. That's bleak, yeah. But what's happy, the good thing about it is that I think the answer is already there. The answer isn't some magic technology or a magic policy. It's actually education is really a product that's made by people in classrooms and in homes. And so our job as a company then becomes to help people in classrooms and homes create a better education experience for kids. And so that's really what ClassNature has been trying to do for a long, long time, from the start of the company. And so the exact set of problems that we've tried to solve changes quite a lot, depending on the classroom, depending on where kids are, what kinds of things teachers want to do. But I'd say like probably the two main problems we solve today. One is that there's this weird like gulf between school and home. So like kids go off to school for like eight hours a day and a bunch of stuff happens in the classroom. And then they go home and a bunch of stuff happens at home. And like then they go home and a bunch of stuff happens at home. And like the kind of the two halves of the day don't really like connect and don't really talk to each other. But that's really like a kid's life growing up. It's like usually you're like one of those two settings. And it's a bit odd because like in every other part of your life, you're connected to the things you care most about, like Instagram or whatever. But like on Instagram or whatever. But it's very odd for parents that they're not more connected to their kids for like most of the day. And for teachers who actually really care about these kids, that they don't really get a view of what's happening at home. And so we really, like that's one big problem we try and help with is like bridging that gulf and like creating more of a connection between school and home. And then the second problem is a newer one, but it's really this, it's kind of like teachers have struggled for a long time to try new ideas in their classroom. So like the pace at which new ideas get introduced to classrooms is actually quite slow. And it takes quite a long time for a teacher to try a new practice. They might have heard of like, I don't know, personalized learning or like something like a growth mindset, like a new idea. It's quite tough. And so we're trying to like help teachers try more ideas in their classrooms and make it easier and faster for teachers to bring new ideas into their classrooms. How does your product make that easier for them? Oh, yeah. So the first part, we basically just helped teachers share more of what's happening at school every day. Sure. So teachers could share pictures what's happening at school every day. Sure. So teachers could share pictures and videos to the school day home. Yeah. So this new bit was from like a couple of years ago where, and it kind of, it wasn't really like a plan. It kind of emerged from something one of the teams was doing. So we spend a lot of time in classrooms and always have. And we kept hearing this thing about social and emotional learning. Like there are lots and lots of teachers who really want to teach their kids things beyond like reading and writing and maths, but like softer skills. And it was really tough for them because it's like quite a fuzzy area. They're like, well, what do we do next? Like I want to teach my kids about curiosity or creativity or empathy. These are like important things for people to learn, but we don't really know how to teach them. And so a few years ago, we went down the road to Stanford and there's a professor there, Carol Dweck, and she's got this, you know, right? I don't know if everyone listening knows, but you know. And she's got this idea called the growth mindset. It's like a really famous TED talk, and she's got a book about it. And it's basically the idea that you're not fixed in your abilities, and that through practice and persistence, you can get better at stuff. But it's amazing how many kids grow up without that idea really in mind. They're kind of told you're a math person or you're not a creative person. And these are really quite limiting mindsets. And so we wanted to see if we could help teachers undo that. Just start with that one idea. See if we could help more teachers share this idea for growth mindset. Because they'd already talked about wanting it. We heard it from them. And so we went to Carol Dweck and her team. And we were like, look, if we could get this idea to lots and lots of schools, what would we do? And together came with this idea of like making short stories, like animated shorts, three to five minute little like thought starters and conversation starters for classrooms. And so we produced, it was the most like heck job I think we've ever done. It was like eight weeks from like the first conversation to getting this series done. We did it all in house. It was like three people in like a tiny room. And, but we made this series of like five animated shorts about growth mindset. And they weren't really like, you know, you've got the Khan Academy kind of lectures. They weren't really like you know you've got the Khan Academy kind of lectures they weren't really lectures they're just like stories and at the end of the story there was a question um so it didn't really give you the answer it's just like the story like teeing up some interesting thoughts for you to discuss and so we made this series and we put it out we distributed it on ClassDojo so every teacher wrote a ClassDojo account it popped up in the app one day for them it's like hey you can teach your kids about growth mindset. And it was crazy because we'd never done anything like it before. And we didn't know how it would be used. But we ended up with something like, I think those videos have reached about 15 million kids now in classrooms, which is nuts. And so that was the first time we ever did anything about this, bringing new ideas to your classroom. And then we did a follow-up with Harvard on empathy, with Yale on mindfulness, and there's more coming. So it's literally, the teacher says, we want to be able to do this, and you say, we'll create it for you. Or we'll find experts. Yeah. We're like, we're not the experts on growth mindset, but there are experts on it. And if we can- It's not just facilitating things that happen in the classroom it's actually providing it's actually helping people move classrooms forward like if you really if you really believe the thing that i said that most kids don't get the education that they should get um for now in the future and and do you believe that teachers want to do the right things for kids then i think it's important to help teachers not just do what's really been done more efficiently but actually help them do new stuff yeah and how are you measuring the success of teaching a growth mindset? Yeah, it's a really good question. So there's kind of two, there's an input and an output measure, right? And the input measure for us was really just like, do people use this? Okay. And so use meaning like use the app, you watch the video? Yeah, do people watch the video? Do they do the activities in the classroom? Do they share at home with parents? Yeah. And so that's quite a good like like effort measure i think um the the real truth with the growth mindset stuff is that like the output measures i think are like from what we can tell from research they like take a bit longer like they're mostly like psychology research and it takes a bit longer to really see if people's mindsets have changed so i think like uh there's this question that comes up a lot of like should you do stuff stuff that people use? Should you do stuff that's high efficacy? I think it's actually a false trade-off. But I think you have to be clear about what today we know how to measure and we don't know how to measure. And the thing that we can measure is, are people voluntarily adopting and using this? Is there a demand for this? And the thing that's going to take a little time to figure out is like, hey, is the whole world now having more of a growth mindset? But what we do know is that like, you know, for 15 million kids, they've been exposed to the idea of a growth mindset. And they're using the words in the classroom and they're using things like, you know, it's not that I can't do this. I can't do this yet. And like that's kind of a cool like starting point, I think. I don't think, I think we're far from done with it. Yeah. Yeah. Great. So from, from the beginning of the company, you've, you've been very effective at talking to your users in such a way that you really understand their problems, I think. And you're, and, and, and you're describing now, you know, as the company grows, you're, you're gathering this from your users and, and giving them the things they really want for their classrooms. Can you talk a little bit about how in that early stage before you knew what your product or even maybe your audience was, how you figured out, how you developed? Like what are strategies for developing that deep understanding of your audience? What are some specific things you did early on and that you continue to do to keep that connection so you can be building the right things, solving the right problems? Yeah, that's a good one. It's a really important theme in the company. We talk a lot about empathy a lot. I think before we even came up with the idea for the first product we ever built, actually, I think might not know is that Classtator didn't actually start, I mean you remember, we didn't actually start as a company. It came really from like, I'd worked in education for most of my life, in classrooms, around classrooms. Liam, my co-founder, had been doing a PhD in computer science focused on technology in classrooms. And so it really came from more like a passion for education-y stuff. And when we turned up in California to do Imagine K-12, we basically didn't know anyone in America at all. We'd never lived in America. We'd never worked here. We'd met this guy called Jeff Ralston on a video called Once. And Tim and Alan were on there as well. And so it kind of enforced a naivety in a way, like it kind of removed any sense of like, hey, we know what we're doing and we'll just, we've got the idea and we'll go and do an idea. So it kind of enforced the like, get out and like try and understand what people who are actually doing this need. And so the first like four, I think it's like six weeks yeah we were here for six or seven weeks before we launched the first version of class dojo uh seven weeks and in those seven weeks um i i it was mostly me but liam was involved too i did basically anything to get in front of teachers to get to classrooms and talk to people and so that like on the on the easier side it was um some schools published like teachers' email addresses just on the website. And so I'd like just email people. And it was kind of a weird email, right? So it wasn't like a pitch for anything. It was more, hey, like I told them a bit about us and I'm like, we'd love to help in any way that we can with whatever you're doing in your classrooms. And like, so what's the worst problem that you face every day? Just please let us know. It's like a one, like asking for like a one line response. Just let us know what the worst problem you face every day is. And so we did that. I think I emailed a few thousand people and it was like scraping email addresses. It was like, I've had a friend at Teach for America. I got some of the email lists there. We had friends who were teachers in the UK and Australia. We kind of emailed just as many people as we could. But the other thing, which was probably like if you'd step up the difficulty a bit, was we'd go to local schools. And so we were in Palo Alto. There was a gun high school nearby. And I found a few teachers there who were willing to talk to me and I went and taught summer school there in fact for like a couple of days just so they promised to like like if hey if you can get you've taught if you can come and teach like summer school for an afternoon sure we'll chat with you after summer school like cool I'll do that we went to like teacher meetups there are these things called the ed camps there's actually one edCamp which was really life-changing for us, which I'll tell you about in a minute. But we went to these teacher meetups. And just as much as you can to soak in the context of your users, that's what we did. That's what I did in the early days for a lot of it. We had a particularly horrific one once where we had to go to Los Altos School District. And we were pretty stingy Brits and so we didn't have like don't want to get a cat like it wasn't around then we didn't have it get a cab so we like biked for miles in like the steaming South Bay Sun to get there and turned up just dripping with sweat there's audience of teachers really really lovely but you kind of like you can just do whatever it takes right like when you're two guys in a room and you need to get to understanding how you can actually help people, you do whatever it takes. So I spoke to, I think, 300 or 400 people on Skype calls, face-to-face in those seven weeks and emailed a few thousand more. And as the company's kind of grown, that's just become like an institution in the company. kind of grown that's just become like an institution in the company like it's I think we're only 30 people but we may be unusual in that we have like research as a function in the company like there are researchers in the company who spend all of their time talking to teachers we have like lots of ways of bringing teacher context in and kids and parents now as well but bringing that into the office like it's like the story's up on monitors like we have community groups and we solicit feedback all the time so i think like that that's just like it's an important part of how we build class is that a vestige of you working in consulting or do you think it just like fits the company because i saw that you worked at mckinsey and this is a very common question that we get like hey I'm working in consulting thinking about doing a startup what do I do like yeah and it's like this consultant versus entrepreneur like get your hands dirty mindset right yeah mine is a bit weird because like consulting was kind of the anomaly for me okay so I was uh in my teens and Karen you know this but like in my teens, the school I went to actually insisted that you teach as well as learn. So I ended up teaching for like 20 hours a week for six years from age 12 to 18. To our peers, yeah. Okay. And many of us did. And it was crazy. But it's also one of the most effective things you can do. It's like, you know the high cost low sorry low cost high quality interventions is peer tutoring and so like we had this in our school we had like i would teach regularly teach classes of 20 to 30 kids for like around 20 hours a week what was your subject that's all of them right like you go everything yeah yeah i mean you'd go across like physics chemistry economics maths it's really like one like really fascinating kind of school um But so I taught for a long time. And I got to college. And I was an economist, a math person. I thought I would carry on with a PhD in that. And I ended up going to teach straight after college instead. And so all the conventional consulting banking didn't really appeal that much. But then McKinsey are very good at the CRM system kind of follow up. And they're and they're like they track where you go and I was like oh I'm going to teach and they're like oh we're we've got this education team here you should come and join the you know like do some education work really and they're like kind of advising governments on how to set up education systems and so so I went there and I spent a bunch of my time there in education and and ultimately the reason you just said is the reason I left that like, I think there's only so long, like if you're used to like getting your hands dirty, there's only so long you can like advise people and not actually do the work. Yeah. And so I think it was, that was more like the way that I'd always been consulting was like the, the kind of the left turn a bit, but yeah, it was good, but it wasn't for me forever. So you talked to these hundreds of teachers and released this first product. Tell us about the early days of growth, what you think drove that, and how that's shifted over time. Have there been transition points where Class Dojo went from kind of this growth engine to this other one? How have you anticipated or managed those transitions? And what do you do now? Yeah, no, it's... But tell us about that early growth. So we had our first like seven weeks or six, seven weeks or so of talking to teachers, like building like little prototypes and things. And then week eight, I remember this because it was a Sunday morning and we'd put the first version of ClassDigit like live for anyone to sign up for. And it was quite early on Sunday. It was something like 6 or 7 in the morning. And there was this ed camp in Oakland. So an ed camp is really just a group of teachers coming together at the weekend to talk to each other about new things they're trying out. So it's kind of like teacher professional development camp. But they're doing it at skyline high school in oakland and um and we were in pal alto at the time and i woke up at six seven i was like oh man like i'm exhausted like we'd been sprinting all week to get this product out and i was like i should probably just blow this off and like be nice to have a lion and um and i don't know what it was but i posted i think it was on facebook and i posted like i also didn't have a way to get there i was i can't bike that far like the cabs can be really expensive there and back and so i posted on i think it was facebook and um i was like does is anyone going towards oakland today like on the off chance anyone's going i'd love a ride and then turns out another person from uh our imagine k12 class, Chris Streeter in fact, was. And he was like, yeah, I'll pick you up and go. And I was like, oh, I guess I'm going to the EdCamp now. So it's a good lesson to try to be the hardest working person in the room. But Chris picked me up, went to the EdCamp. And basically starting, there was something like 80 or 90 teachers there. And we were just chatting.'re like oh like you're not a teacher what are you up to and i told them about this thing that we'd been working on uh about class dojo and and they're like oh that sounds really fascinating and then like two or three of them um were like oh i might i might like check it out and like tell some friends about it as well and so we kind of had these two things are the people we'd already spoken with who you can imagine like the most magical experience you could get is someone turns up and says hey we just want to solve a problem for you and then goes and build something that tries to solve the problem like that's like a good experience for you it's a very white glove kind of service and so a bunch of people got that those that was the 400 teachers or so that I'd spoken with and then this new set were like oh that might work for me as well and and then they they started using it and they like tweeted out to like twitter was actually big for us in the early days they started telling like their their teacher followers and friends about it a few of them turned out to be quite like influential like thought leader type teachers and um and so by the end of that first week we had that um something like 80 teachers using it um every day and we were like well this is amazing but 80 was like just an unimaginable number for us and this is in the summertime when this was like the right at the end of the summer it was like it was like uh i think we got to the last week of july or first week of august okay so schools are not really in session but well you've got this is this one the secrets was like teachers are already preparing for like what's coming at the end of August, right? So they're already trying things out. They're already like setting up classes and all that kind of stuff. So this was like kind of crazy. We're like, wow, there's people like actually picking this thing up. And then what happened was from then through Demo Day, which I think was like, was it end of August or early September? Early September. Yeah. So it was like, was it end of August or early September? Early September. Yeah. So it was like roughly a month, like four or five weeks or so. And it had gone from like 80 teachers, like a few thousand people using it. And we were like, this has just blown our minds, right? We're like, this is kind of crazy that it's just spread. And all of that was purely through the product. It was just like, we didn't purely through the product. It was just like we had, we didn't say through the product. It wasn't like some clever viral flow or whatever. It was like one teacher using it or saying this will solve a problem for me and then spreading it to other teachers. And so we'd find one teacher in school would pick it up and then it would like travel through the whole school. And that happened a lot in the early days. So that was kind of early stuff. It was kind of we weren't doing a huge amount on trying to drive growth. It was more just like building a good product. But a little bit later, probably the biggest turning point, and it's this thing that continues to this day, was we went to observe a teacher's classroom in Bessie Carmichael Elementary here in the city. And her name is Jenna Klein. And so we went to sit in her classroom. And we were like, wow, she's a pretty awesome teacher. She's a science teacher, right? Like, she's a great classroom and whatever. And she's using Dojo. And we thought nothing more of it. We had a bunch of research notes, went back to the product team, whatever. Two months later, I get an email from Jenna, and she was like, hey, I'm thinking of transitioning out of the classroom, and I'd love to come and do an internship with you guys. Would you be up for that? And we were like six people at the time or something. We were like, I don't know what we would do with an intern. And we were like, yeah, sure. Like, you know, we've probably got, I know, like support or something that needs doing. Like you can come and help out. And so she joined for the summer and she was doing a bunch of like support stuff. And at the end of the summer, we're like, well, I guess she's going back to teaching now. And she came to me and said, Sam, I think we're really missing a trick with community. And I was like, what do you mean, community? We're building products, right? And she was like, no, no, no. I found this thing where you'll get one teacher in a school who loves this and then spreads it to other teachers, and it's a real pattern. And here's how the growth rate of like, she'd done basically a whole analysis of like how schools with a, with an influencer teacher who's friend the word grow faster than other schools. And, and she'd got these like, like she'd, she'd set up like a Facebook group for a bunch of these power. She'd, she'd done all this like secret work basically in the summer on community stuff. And I was like, um, yeah, I guess we can like, we can extend the internship for a few months and just see how it goes. Yeah, I guess we can extend the internship for a few months and just see how it goes. But this was one of the big secrets in the company was teachers are amongst the most underserved people in the world. If you think the average teacher, they get into this job, which is pretty underpaid relative to most other jobs you could do. It's often underappreciated. It's really tough. And you're on your feet with 30 kids all day. It's a really tough job. And so if you turn up and you're like, hey, we're going to be the people who really listen to you and help you change your classroom to be the one that you dreamed of rather than feeling like you've got your hands tied the entire time, it turns out they tell people about that. And Jenna built this crazy, like, not crazy, I shouldn't say that, but it's like a community of teachers who are just so enthusiastic about changing their classrooms and helping other teachers change their classrooms. Making these connections among your users. Yeah, I was going to say, can you explain how that dynamic actually works? So you say you're looking for a teacher who will be an advocate in any particular school. So how are you finding them and then what happens from there? Yeah, so usually they'll find Class Dojo and then we'll support them to spread the word a bit more. So Jenna made this community called the Mentor Community. And the mentors are basically our first teacher in every school that we're in who finds Class Dojo. So we still don't do that much to spread new schools. It jumps through social networks. It's still primarily organic. It's still primarily organic. We still don't pay for user acquisition. So it's all like word of mouth. But once it gets to a school, then we really support that mentor to spread the word and to bring other teachers along if they think it's good like we don't want uh we don't want like a top-down implementation we don't want the principal to grab it and push it onto everyone we want it to spread like in a grassroots way and so jenna built this whole like um community which is like supportive of each other and supportive of like spreading the word and and that's like a really it's a power it's a community with a purpose which you class as a movement, and that's a really powerful thing. So I think the turning point for us was Jenna. If strategy one was just good product, obsessively listening to people and serving them, strategy two then was building a supportive community that is excited about a different future for education. And I think that's a secret that the community stuff i don't think many companies really understand that did jenna stay with you yeah she's still with us today nice yeah she's she's awesome good job jenna yeah that's awesome um so jen is with you and you're more than six people but you're still a small team still still still pretty small team and and class dojo so can you give us a us a sense of your reach now in terms of the product? Yeah. Yeah. We usually talk about the percentage of schools that we're in. So in the U.S., we're in like 90% of K-8 schools in the country now, which is about 100,000 schools or so. Okay. You're in about 100,000 schools. About 100,000 schools or so. Okay. You're in about 100,000 schools? About 100,000 in the US, yeah. Okay. And so there may be one teacher or... There may be one. There's more and more. It's like whole schools. Okay. But it's at least one being active. Okay. And then this is actually the first year that we're bigger internationally than in the US. So we've got more schools outside,000 schools using it then. Okay. Got it. And about half of those in the U.S. So you're used by all of these schools, and you guys have raised over $30 million in funding, but you're still a team of just 30. And, well, is that unusual given where you are? And was it a conscious decision to kind of keep the team at this size and run lean? Can you tell us about that thinking and kind of how you make that work if that's unusual? Yeah, I mean, judging by the way you're asking it, it sounds pretty unusual. I think so? I don't know. I'm like, is this the right question? No, absolutely. Yeah, I mean, I think, absolutely. The average company would be much bigger in terms of headcount. Yeah. Yeah, I know. It's certainly something we've thought a lot about. It's definitely intentional. There's a few things for me. One is that I think it's always surprising how much small teams can get done. And I think there's actually large diminishing returns, like very, very large teams. And so for Dojo, we've kind of been informed by, there's a great book called Team of Teams on this. I keep plugging this book everywhere. Plug away. But yeah, it's basically how you create, I'm really interested in this as an area of personal interest, is how you create high-performing teams. And this book talks a lot about two concepts, like empowered execution and shared context. And so I think the conventional way of, or a conventional way of building teams is that you hire the VP who then issues the instructions to the troops and the troops go and execute. And I think in fast-mo moving or uncertain environments, it's far more interesting to have a team of leaders who are capable of making decisions quickly and moving quickly. So I think what we've done instead of building very large teams is build like the 30 people are structured in even smaller teams, right? Like we have product development teams, which are anywhere between three to 10 people, a mix of engineers, PMs, designers, et cetera. We try and have each of the teams having a clear mission that they all believe in and are empowered to execute on it. They've got all the information they need. Internally in the company, everything is public. Board decks are public, financials are public. You have all the information to make a globally optimal decision about what you should do next. Rather than like just getting a sliver of information and having to march forward on that. And so I think that's actually how you get the most from people is when people are like really bought in on a mission they believe in and they feel like the owners of that mission. And so I think we've obsessed a lot over building that kind of culture. I don't think we always get it right, but we've seen great returns to really obsessing of the right kind of culture. And so we could certainly do with many more people on the team. I'm not saying that this is where we'll stay now. In fact, our first recruiter just joined last week. So I've done all the recruiting so far. But I do think the small team thing is really undervalued. I think if you can get small, high-performing teams working, you can scale those a lot. And there's actually something that Amazon talked about a lot with the two pizza teams and things, is if you can get small, autonomous teams. What is a two pizza team? The whole team could be fed with two pizzas. Oh, I see. Yeah. Okay. I can eat two pizzas. So that's why I do all the podcasts on my own. So what would you advise people who want to adopt that same strategy, but they're also used to doing all the stuff? They're like, I want to do all the recruiting because so far I've recruited 30 great people. Yeah. I want to do all the recruiting because so far I've recruited 30 great people. Yeah. And how do you like, how do you train yourself to let go? Yeah, I think so specifically for me as CEO, I think it's the, there's this great thing in Dahlia's book, Principles of like what your job becomes. And he's got this diagram which is based like goals, machine, results. And the machine is just people and culture. And like periodically you kind of want to step back and think about like the design of the the machine and like what your role is in the machine and ben ben did evans actually has a good post on this it's about amazon he calls it the machine that builds the machine and um i loved it but i think this is like a it's an important thing to be able to get some distance and reflect on what the appropriate role for you in the company is. I think actually Sam Altman said this, that you get to about 25 people and your job shifts from building the product to building the culture and it kind of stays there. And that's so true, right? The reason I've just replaced myself with an actual recruiter is that that's not the right job for me anymore. But there are other parts of the culture that I need to focus on and build. So I think it's, to answer your question, I think it's having a retrospective loop on what your role as CEO is in both designing the whole machine and then your part in that machine. Okay. What other books have been helpful for you in uh developing a leadership and yeah product strategy oh there's a lot there's um we have we have a pretty obsessive reading culture at dojo we have a book club every month and like like most people like do i think an hour or so of reading a day at least but yeah it's quite good but um there's been a few so i've talked about team of teams there's um extreme ownership is another good but um there's been a few so i've talked about team of teams there's um extreme ownership is another good one um there's kind of like the convention like the zero to one and like the startup ebooks the startup you kind of yeah that everyone will point to i'm trying to i should pull up my kindle and and uh and think of what some of the unusual ones are but uh i really love principles when you read it a while ago yeah uh it's certainly a little bit extreme but i think it's it's quite good uh there's one called the evolution of everything um which like the main message from it was i think it's very easy to believe the world is like designed in some way and embracing like emergence in the company for like for instance the the growth mindset videos i spoke about like that was an emergent idea. That wasn't, CEO said, we have to do growth mindset videos. That was like one of our product development teams came up with this insight. And now that's a major part of what we do at Dojo. And so embracing the idea of emergence is a really, really important one. And do you draw inspiration from books that aren't about business? Yeah. I mean, there's a lot lot there's one that i'm reading at the moment called the diamond age which seems uh which seems quite good okay yeah i'm quite early on it but um i'm i'm the ones that are coming to mind for me now are all the ones i've read recently yeah yeah yeah that's everything yeah yeah um karen i have a question what was uh what was sam like in the early days what do you remember about him in the early days at Imagine P12 sure yeah because we met when you you moved to America to build this startup but you didn't know what this startup was yet it's just valuable because so many people like listen to the podcast or watch videos even like the authors you're talking about right listen to the podcast or watch videos, even like the authors you're talking about, right? Like, oh, this is Jocko's book. He's so hardcore. How do I become Jocko? What's the workout plan? There's just some guy, right? And like, they're just, he was an 18 year old at some point. And the same is true for all of us. Right. So I think that perspective is, would be interesting if you remember it. Early days of Sam. I remember, I mean, you're very easy to talk. Sam is very easy to talk to. And so that kind of stands out and I think was probably part of what made that early learning from customers so possible. But, yeah, I remember, you know, those early months, it seemed like a very stressful time because you didn't know exactly what demo day was coming. Product didn't exist yet. The idea was taking form um but sam and liam would just kind of show up and be like yeah we're we're working we're getting all this you know we're talking to all these people and we're kind of wondering what's going to come of this what's going to come of this pet and here came glass stone and i have this vivid memory of sam you're talking about your your frugal British nature. Sam wearing glasses with only one side of the glasses while still holding them to his face. And the other side was missing. Is there a word for that? Like the love of patching things together in the UK? Like you see it with houses too. Yeah. You know there's the idea of the crazy British inventor. There's the one person person to shadow ever. I think that's actually Liam, that's not me. But like that's, I think that's, there should be a word for it. Yeah. Yeah. It wasn't quite patched. It was just dangling on his face. There's no patching. Glasses still seem to serve their purpose. Turns out you don't need to really really proud proud days and what what has changed since you guys just start like i'm sure you had some degree of vision right in the beginning and what you thought the product would be what what changed what were some big realizations oh man yeah that's that's a that's a big question too um what's been amazing is like the the core thesis that I said at the start that I actually think education is made by people, not by technology. And the role of technology is in service of people, supporting them. That thesis hasn't changed. From those early conversations, it became pretty clear that the best way we could have impact was by serving teachers, helping them connect with their kids and parents, and then helping them improve their classrooms. And that would be a way to both have impact and to scale. But I think the thing that's changed the most is the actual products that we've built. So ClassData has never been a one-product company. I think the first problem we ever worked on was helping teachers build a better classroom culture. And that was just a product for teachers to use inside the classroom. Later on, it became far more important for us to share beyond the classroom to include the whole community, families, also other teachers and the principal in the school. And so it became much more of a network product than just like a single player kind of thing. And then the thing that changed after that was that network could then be used to share more and more ideas. Right. And so that was probably the latest evolution. Okay. So it's kind of like the product I think has changed a lot. Yeah. I think the thesis with the company stayed largely the same. Okay. And was there, were there learnings that may be counterintuitive that are maybe, I guess it could be for ed tech specifically or just a startup in general. I'm always curious to see what people pick up along the way that they didn't expect at all in the beginning that you would advise other founders to keep in mind. Yeah, I actually wrote some of these down. Let me just put one of these up. Yeah, I thought about this one because I saw it. just put one of these up yeah i thought about this one because i saw it um yeah i think like what won the ones for me was this thing of um this we talked about a bit but like the small teams thing because the whole way we've always been pushed by investors to like just like you've got to like hire more people and grow faster and whatever and when you think about this a bit from from the realities of the education world like you work in school years so there's no point you being alive for like three out of the 12 months of the school year you better be around in 12 months like chunks and so i don't know if that's counterintuitive but it's not obvious from the outside you'd be like well we should just hire people in like january and then you know it's like cool but if that means you run out of money in June, then you don't get another school year. Yeah. So that was good. And I think, like, it's been surprising. It's always surprised me how much small teams can do. So that was a big one for me. Another one for me was, like, the emergence thing. I think there's a narrative in Silicon Valley that some kind of far forward-looking visionary will come down from the mountain with the plan and then give it to the troops and the troops will just go and execute it. And it may be true. There may be people who are just that brilliant. I think that is the case in a few instances but for for us i think we've got a great um we've got a lot of mileage out of just like embracing the idea of like your job isn't to like minimize the chaos but it's like empower people to to think big um and to be bold about the things that they they might do and the only way you can really do that is um one by making the company a psychologically safe place and the teams a psychologically safe place. Like if you're always being judged on like success and failure at every moment, it's really tough for people to think big. How do you do that? I mean, because that's an issue everywhere. Yeah. So one actually interesting thing we did recently, it wasn't so much for products, but it was across the whole organization, was we started a running log of all issues in the company. Okay. So this is really weird, right? It's internally public for everyone to see. And anyone can add to it. You can add anonymously. You can add with your name on it. And so it'll be everything from like, hey, the priorities aren't clear, to hey, we're really creating too much trash, to what happened with that, you know, that X project that we never heard about. And so the idea is that like, I think we really value building a culture where we can be like real with each other. And it's never in like a hard or arrogant way. It's actually in like the most empathic way that like we all, we all think this mission is like really, really important. It's really important that that every kid in the world gets a better education in a reasonable period of time. And so we're all here to do that. And so any issue that's standing in the way of doing that, it's far better to drag it out into the light where it can be solved than to have it fester quietly. And so I think that building the kind of company that quickly surfaces and resolves issues rather than letting them fester is really important so my like for that one practice it's recent but you know we review that log every week the guarantee is that there will always be action taken on it like we'll prioritize it we'll take action but you can we do it in asana and you can like follow along so if you submit an issue you know it's going to get worked on the idea is not a new one It actually came from there's a plant called the new me plant which was the partnership between Toyota and GM and Went from one the worst car production factories in Fremont To one the best in the world and it did it by like really empowering The people doing the work and they would guarantee that any suggestion you put in the suggestion box Would be acted on straight away. And if it couldn't be acted on for some reason, they would publicly announce it within a week why it couldn't be acted on. And so it's like, you imagine what a factory looks like. It's not that. It's like you just do your little slice of the assembly line and move on. Anyhow, I'm digressing a bit, but I think that was really counterintuitive. The the, the standard narratives about what, what great companies and great leaders do, which is, you know, set the vision and tell people what to do is like, we're so far off for us. And there's strong parallels with classrooms. I don't think, I think great teachers don't tell the kids what to do. Yeah. You know? And so it's, it's a great insight i uh i used to work at the onion and when everyone it's something that's not necessarily obvious but the onion doesn't have bylines and that anonymity is amazing for creativity wow yeah because it's so easy i don't know this like might be a little racy or this is like super weird like i don't know if i want my name behind this headline right it doesn't matter it's all by the onion or it's by made up people right it's like an yeah yeah that's super it was so handy and so yeah to your point like i think if people could submit you know issues anonymously but also see it tracked yeah super helpful especially i mean place like yc same thing yeah like we we could do a better job yeah Yeah. So your product, um, serves a, it's like a, in a sensitive, in a sensitive space, you have sensitive audience, right? You're, um, used in schools by teachers teaching young children and everyone's very interested in what, what young children are touching and, and, uh, what kind of lessons they're receiving. Um, and years ago, you went through some kind of court of public opinion trials. So I want you to share about that because I think every company has to worry about how they're perceived and that court of public opinion. But it's really amplified when you're dealing with an audience that includes, when you're serving customers that include young children. Yeah. Um, so I, I want to see, uh, if you could share, uh, you know, a little bit about that story and what you learned from that kind of as a company in terms of how you manage that side of what you have. Yeah, no, no, totally happy to share. So I think like this is actually, um, I think Imagine K-12 had an amazing role to play in this. No, no, no, not in a bad way. So like five or six years ago, right, there was this new cohort of like ed tech companies that just like launched into the world. And it was a really like uncertain world for like all of us. I mean, you guys were also building Imagine K-12 in LinkedIn. And there was lots of learnings there. There were lots of learnings for us. So we did the conventional thing, which was build a product that people love, get it out to lots of people, focus on that, focus on that, focus on that. And all of us did it, because that was the conventional wisdom of the Valley at the time. And I think it was like a few years in, I forget exactly which year it was, but there was really like this sudden, like, oh my God, like there's all this technology in classrooms now. Like, what is it? Is it good? Is it bad? What is, you know, et cetera, et cetera, like lots and lots of debate and discussion about it. And it really like dragged a few things out into the light for me, right? Because like the naive way to build products is like, we'll just build a great product and everything else will take care of itself. And you most often hear that with founders who don't want to do sales, for instance, right? But this one wasn't sales at all. It was actually clear communication. And so as a company, which we have a lot of introverts in the company, and I used to be very extroverted, but more curmudgeonly over time like like you you kind of forget that like that's actually like really really important like it's important to do what you say and say what you do and to be clear in your communication and so you'd have like a few years ago you had you know a bunch of young startups who had suddenly got to scale um or some scale interesting enough scale that it was it was relevant um who had like boilerplate like terms and conditions or privacy policies or um hadn't updated the website and we're guilty of all of these but i hadn't updated the website to like to actually describe what you do um uh or had catered to one audience like teachers but not to like districts and so so like i think the thing that and we actually met the thing that like started to solve it in the end for us. What was the, what was the criticism that you guys were dealing with? The criticism was like, yeah, no, there are lots of criticisms for, for, I think not, not just for us, the whole industry, but for us, it was like, well, like what happens with like kids information, right? Like, because the only parallel people have, and there's actually two points here. Because the only parallel people have, and there's actually two points here. One is communication. The other is like, what's your business model? And so the first one, communication, is important for everyone. The second one, if you go back a few years now, the main example people had was like business on the internet was like Facebook or Google. These are like the companies that often get held up. And they're like, oh, those companies literally take users' information and give it to advertisers. And so when companies are working in classrooms, I don't think that's acceptable at all. That would be a really bad way to build and fund an education technology company. And so I think it's really, so first first it's important to be clear and crisp in your communication and i think many of us weren't there like we you know i know a few of us at least wrote our rewrote all of our policies in like sixth grade language or sixth grade level english just so that anyone could understand right because your terms of service yeah because legal legal jogging is legal jogging and it it's confusing and weird for everyone. But if you write it, what does this mean? That goes a long way. Also being clear, hey, this isn't an advertising company. Your data is not going anywhere. It's yours. You can delete it. You can change it. If you don't delete it, we'll delete it after X years of inactivity or something. Because we don't need it. It's yours. We don't need it to sell ads against. And so then the second thing was making sure your incentives are aligned with your users. And so for us, actually the best business model in the world is also the oldest one in the world, which is like, hey, we'll make some stuff for you. And if you really like it, you can buy some of it. Which isn't like rocket science right but like that's all we're saying we're like hey we'll make a bunch of stuff for teachers and for and for parents and we're particularly interested for parents we're like well most parents don't really have very good choices like most parents in the world you have the choice of if you want to do something good for your kids education if you're in the top 10% of the population, you can send them to private school and pay $30,000 a year. But if you're not, what do you do? And we're like, well, if we could give you a better choice to make there, which is also affordable, et cetera, we call it the education bundle for your kids, would that be interesting? And parents are like, yeah, that would be really interesting. And so I think just being clear about these things is something that we weren't guilty of because we're so heads we're guilty of because we're so heads down like just building products because you know make something people want right sure and you know your intentions but what else you say and and i think i think it's one of those things of like leveling up as a company where you realize like the scope of your responsibility extends beyond like your own user base and beyond like your team and beyond um you know the people in classrooms who we are obsessed with and love. It extends to people who have never touched your product or used it, and they need to know too. And that was a whole different thing. We hired a head of comms that year, and she's still with us, and she's amazing. But that really built a new function in the company that we didn't have. As you expand internationally, as you said, you're now used in more schools internationally than in the US. Is that kind of changing the communication needs? I mean, there are different kind of privacy regimes in the EU and so forth. Yeah, what do you see? Yeah, I mean, the short answer is yes. You do the right thing for every jurisdiction you operate in. Anything kind of interesting or counterintuitive coming out of that or it's pretty straightforward? You just kind of abide by that? I mean, it's pretty straightforward. The rules are all different, but they're all in the same spirit, right? But in terms of communicating with parent communities so that... Or maybe, I don't know, maybe penetration in those different countries isn't at the level where you're getting that scrutiny kind of in the press and so on um well maybe it is i don't know yeah no i mean like i said we're majority international now so the growth is good but um i think like the eu is like kind of famous for you know being very buttoned up on privacy so there's a you know a while ago there was like i forgot what it's called now but it was like the safe harbor thing and then there was the privacy shield and so so you just kind of have we have like people in the company who like full-time stay on top of that stuff um which you don't have to think about when you're like in you know with 80 teachers so i think just as like as the company grows you have like more of these considerations to take into account when you're building products like our products all go to, we have like counsel who like looks them and make sure they're compliant with the different jurisdictions. But as far as managing the public conversation about you, has anything interesting come up there that was different? Not an obvious thing that comes to mind. I'm racking my brains to think of one. No, that's good. Yeah, no, not an obvious one. I mean like I think in general, just like being clearer in communication in all of our products, like helps everyone. Right. It's not like so scoped to jurisdiction. It's like if every parent is like, oh, cool. Like I get to, you know, share in my kids school day now. Wonderful. And their classroom is getting better. Awesome. You know, but we never say those things before. You mentioned charging parents earlier for certain things. What does monetization look like for you guys in the future? Yeah, I think we've always had, this is one of the things that hasn't changed from the start, actually. It's like we've had the same view on it that, so a few principles, like we really do want to reach like every classroom in the world. Like it'd be really good if, like it's one of the flaws with the current education system is that I've already talked about one, which is that there's often stagnation. You can't get new ideas implemented quickly. It's all like, what would you call them, like type one decisions. They're like big heavyweight kind of like, do we do this or not? And if you can make it like a type two decision, make it really easy to try and reverse, like wonderful. I think that's more innovation. But a second flaw in it is the inequality. People more innovation happen. But a second flaw in it is the inequality. People will talk about how education in the US is broken. It's not actually for a few people. It's really good for a few people. And for most people, the difference between the luckiest and the average is large. And so for me, if you're working in education, there's almost an imperative to work on the equity part of it. And so we don't want to do anything that prohibits us or gets in the way of that equity argument. We do want to get to every classroom in the world. On the other side, I think the business models of education have mostly been about selling to schools and districts. And this is slow. It takes a while. It would get in the way of that goal. But there's a really interesting observation we had that I think I've already alluded to, that parents everywhere in the world, for the most part, really care about their kids. It's something we've done for a long time. It's an evolutionary thing. It's not just a job. It's just we're wired to care about our kids. You have to keep it alive. The small ones, you very clearly have to keep it alive like the small ones you very clearly yeah it's a tiny tiny person that depends on you and so we're like well these are also people who are like really underserved in my view i'm like like i said you you have fairly limited choices you hope the school near you is really good and that the specific teacher whose classroom you go to is like that's a really good teacher and maybe if you can afford it you like move houses or move jobs whatever to get to a better school but like you know for most of the world's population that's pretty unreasonable um maybe you can go to private school if you can pay the the fees but like again pretty unreasonable pretty out of reach and i'm like well if if we could just create value for parents enough value that like there's something that they want to pay for yeah um that could be interesting and if it could be like relatively affordable on you know the order of 10 bucks let's say sure like a month like that would be amazing and so that's kind of the the general direction we've gone and we we've and that that's been the same direction that we've pursued from the start. So, yeah, another common question that comes in over the board a lot at YC is, how is ed tech different than traditional or whatever startups, tech startups? And actually, probably both of you guys could answer this one. Yeah, do you want to go first? After you, yeah. Oh, well, that's very nice. There's like the obvious differences, I think, that we've spoken about around like, hey, how distribution is different and like the things around privacy and security need to be buttoned up on and how it's not quite consumer or not quite enterprise somewhere in the middle i think but but i think the the non-obvious one for me is um is how education isn't it's not a tech product it's and it's really like because unlike other industries I think, education is really just what happens between a teacher and a learner. And so it's really like a very human creation. And so the role of technology is really like to support that, not to like replace it. And the analogy I always use for the team is like, and I think this is really important because like the analogy I use for the team is the difference between a technical system and a human system. And if you're making like one perfect technical system, like a MacBook or a Tesla, let's say, probably the right strategy is to have like a perfect design for it and then just like sell it to as many people as can afford it and hope it gets cheaper over time. Like it's like design first and then give it and then sell it to as many people as can afford it and hope it gets cheaper over time. Like it's like design first and then give it and then sell it to people. But I think if you're working with a human system, like a team or a classroom, like it's actually a really bad strategy to like design something and then just like impose it on people. I think you actually fall the opposite order where you get two people and you help them design the changes they want to make in their human systems. And I think that's like a non-obvious but really important mental model difference. Would you agree? I haven't thought about it in those terms, but absolutely. I think, like you said, this is a human system and you need to be worried about, not worried about, but conscious of the fact that it's not going to be consistent across every implementation because you have humans involved. I would also say ed tech has a very compelling double bottom line. Companies can get into this because they can build interesting businesses, but they can also have a big impact on this equity problem that's very interesting and compelling to work on. It's also ripe for lots of solutions to come in and make things more efficient. I think if we look at the administrative level in education systems, in K-12 especially, in districts, kind of the administrative level in education systems in K-12, especially in districts, they haven't been well served by enterprise products that, you know, they try to adapt into the education system or buy a lot of the legacy education products. So we see a lot of great companies being built around not being so focused on the classroom, but in this back office, how do we do these things efficiently that we've figured out how to do well in enterprise settings, but, uh, but something needs to be a little bit different in a school setting. And so there's just a lot of room to build interesting companies in this space still. So it's an exciting place to be working in. Yeah. I think that's great. Yeah. All right. Well, thanks for coming in, Sam. Cheers. Thank you. Yeah. Good to see you. Take care.