 Jeff is someone that I met in the very beginning of my venture into venture when I first started investing a long time ago. And he taught me as many lessons about how to be a good investor many lessons about how to be a good investor and in two senses, how to be a good investor by making good choices and how to be a good investor partner to the founders with whom I would invest and become partners with. I don't think anyone in the industry is as helpful as Jeff, an extremely smart, perceptive investor, and I've learned a ton from him. His comments that I, that hits home and that you all should pay attention to with the founders that you work with is that, he says, I wish startups focused more. There are always too many things on their plate. It's actually true of Jeff. Generally, there's always too many things on his plate. I'm very grateful that he added one more and came and talked to us today. So Jeff Clavier. Thank you. Thank you so much. He's a great investor without anyone else helping him. So it's a pleasure to be here. It's super exciting to see so many people who are ready to do the most exciting thing that you can think of, which is see the future through the eyes of founders and try and help them, help them with a bit of capital, help them with a lot of help. So congratulations for that. I decided to cover what seems to be a boring subject. And yes, it's kind of boring, asset allocation and portfolio construction. But I hope that any of my talk you'll have realized why I decided to spend the next 20 minutes on that, because it's actually really important to think about all those things as you get on your annual journey. Sort of brief bio, so I was born French, did a startup in the financial services market in France, got acquired, spent seven years at Reuters as a senior exec, so did the big company thing, moved here 18 years ago to become a traditional VC, and then in 2004 saw this emergence of Web 2.0 companies, and at the time, believe it or not, they were just a handful of angels actually backing those entrepreneurs who were looking to raise a few hundred thousand dollars. So I jumped in and became one of the then super angels. Uncork, you might have heard of us as Softech, is now 14 years old, 200 deals, bunch of successes, some of the companies that we backed, blah, blah, blah. Those are the funds that we're now investing out of Fund 5, it's a $100 million fund, we have a growth fund as well. But I want to spend time on this part, 14 years ago when I was investing my own capital as an angel. So what I like to do in those kinds of events is go back in history and talk about, hey, this is what I wish someone had told me then, as opposed to me discovering it. And it's as opposed to me discovering it. And it's kind of important to figure out how much of your net worth you should be investing, risking with entrepreneurs, because it's a pretty bold thing to do. It's a very long game. I'm sure you've heard that already over the past couple of days, sitting with all those awesome angels. The thing that people don't always appreciate as angels is how long it is going to take to get this massive outcome that you're all hoping for. And yes, there are billion-dollar outcomes that happen within one or two years of the company being founded, but that's the extreme kind of example that almost never happens. For you, for most angels, it will take eight to ten years. So start sort of being ready for that. Obviously, it's very risky, you're gonna have losses. Those will come very fast typically. So bad news comes first in our industry and something which I've seen with our funds getting in the money. So let's say you decided to invest 250k in a portfolio of companies, it will probably take six years to get that cash back. And then you will get into profits. That's what VC funds do. They get the fund back to LPs within six years, and then they start getting carried. It's really super risky. And so at the end of the day, you have to be modest and realistic and understand that anything you invest has a high likelihood of just being wiped out. Which means, don't invest money that you can't lose. If you actually get anything out of this talk, that's one sentence. If ever you need the cash back, don't invest it in startups. So just to put things in context, your investment will be part of... Okay, that's interesting. So it's supposed to show you an ecosystem with all the seed stage, pre-seed, whatever. Unfortunately, it's not showing up for some reason. Can you sort of see why? Okay, good. Thank you. So this is the kind of compressed ecosystem in which you guys will operate. So you'll typically be at the top, right? You invest at pre-seed, seed, maybe a bit later. Most angels don't really sort of come into companies at series and so forth. So you'll be part of this, right? And you guys will sort of start figuring out your own comfort with valuations. And a simple way to think about valuations is that they're a reflection of the traction or lack thereof the company has achieved, the risks that are still on the table as opposed to the ones that have been taken off the table, and the potential of the company. And so when you invest as an angel, typically it's the highest risk, it's the lowest valuation, it's the longest holding, and it's the highest return sort of multiple potential. It's important for you to figure out, and I'm going to give two examples. Think about Dropbox. Dropbox, you could have invested, if you were lucky, at 3 pre, but that was at the crazy time where there was barely a product and it was just the two founders. Or you could invest at $4 billion, which is when the Series C sort of happened. Clearly, most established, various established companies, founders, product, revenues, and so forth. But obviously, the difference in terms of return potential between 4 billion and 3 million is pretty different. So, asset allocation. How much of your net worth should you allocate to enjoy investments? Obviously, it's your choice. But I would really ask you to think about this framework, which is, okay, I'm going to lose everything that I'm going to put in, and I have to be okay with it. That was sort of my pitch to my wife 14 years ago when I said, hey, so we had made a little bit of money at Reuters when we sold the company and so on and so forth. And I said, so I want to try and be a full-time Android investor. I'm going to take 250K of our hard-earned savings and invest them in startups, consumer startups. And I'm going to do nothing but that for 18 months. Okay? And I'm going to do nothing but that for 18 months. Okay? And the comment was, but you know nothing about the consumer stuff. But, you know, she loves me, and so she said yes. But I don't think I told her the bit about, hey, we're going to lose everything. But that's really important. That's the way to think about it. Everybody has circumstances. If you have a family, if your partner doesn't work, whatever, if you have whatever. I think 10% is probably a sound number. And when you think about the guys who have a lot of money to allocate to different asset classes, like pension funds, typically they do 5% to 10% in VC and private equity, so two asset classes. I saw that Stanford goes up to 25% in VC and PE. So I think 10% is a good number and you can always sort of do more if you're successful, but at least put a cap out there. There's always sort of a notion of, okay, so 10%, fine. What is the minimum? Once again, it sort of depends on your portfolio construction, and we'll talk about that. But obviously, with the Jobs Act, it's possible for non-accredited investors, so all you guys are accredited, to actually participate, you know, through angel syndicates and so forth. You could decide to put like $1,000 per company and be an angel investor. Why not? I would say for you guys who want to do this professionally or semi-professionally, I think that thinking about an initial budget of $100,000, which you would divide in number of slots, up to a million dollars if you have sort of the means, is sort of a good way to think about it and you want to think about a certain investment horizon you don't want to try and shove all this cash in the first few months of your activity because the challenge I mean there was a question earlier about how do I bootstrap my deal flow that's a great question which is hey how do I tell the world that I'm an angel investor knowing that now it's pretty popular? The other is that because you don't have any sort of sense of what's good, what's not, everything's good. Like I loved everything I was seeing, you know, back in the day. The problem is you need to normalize. You need to sort of figure out what is the bar that you set for yourself in terms of investing. And if there's, you know, one thing to do is put the bar high. So, I'm repeating that. Segregating the cash and making it sort of move to a different account that you actually don't mentally think about, it's not something that you use for paying taxes or your expenses or whatever. It's actually sort of a good trick. So, portfolio construction. That defines the key factors of your investment strategy. And so, there's a few sort of factors and there's more. But it's the check size. What's going to be your average check size when you invest? What is the target number of investments per year? Do you want to have a concentrated portfolio? Do you want to have a larger portfolio? What are the sectors you want to invest in? We heard about different strategies. You could be very focused on what you are an expert in and if you're building a company in a given sector and as you had sort of said you write about it people so will come to you with things in that industry and that you know really well about that's a completely legit sort of investment strategy another could be hey there's five or six sectors i'm interested in i'm just going to go for them then figure out whether you want to be like super early, pre-seed as we call it, which is you actually help the founder to build the product, or maybe seed stage where we at Uncork invest, where we launch the product and invest roughly 9 to 12 months after the pre-seed stage. Geographies, do you want something which is in your backyard so you can actually meet your CEOs? You know, why not? And will you only do sort of investments at whatever seed stage, pre-seed stage, your first check, or will you actually try and follow on and go into your company? So those are sort of a few, six sort of factors I want you guys to think about as you sort of define your investment strategy and that's you know what we call portfolio construction. And by the way that's how we do it as well. So few examples. So when I started I was writing 25 to 50K checks, right? And there wasn't like a super hard rule as to whether it was 25 or 50, depending on the deal, what was available, and so on and so forth. The point is to have some consistency. If you have 100K here and 5K there, it's hard to have sort of a real strategy because obviously the 100k will take all your sort of attention because it will be a much larger check for you. There's no magic number. I like the 10 to 12 investments per year. That's a good number. It's a good pace. It's enough that you can actually, you know, put a bunch of points on the board. It's roughly 35 to 40 investments over three years. That's a good size portfolio. That's actually the size of our funds portfolio. Some people want to go 400. Some people want to do one or two deals a year. It's okay as long as you build your narrative and your strategy around the number that you're comfortable with. Those are the sectors we invest in, all of them. We can do that because we've been around forever and people sort of know that regardless of the sector we'll do a good job supporting our companies, even some of the more adventurous today like space tech where I would lie saying that I'm an expert in space tech other than one company but we know how to build startup. We can do that. It's up to you to figure out where you want to play. Those are some early stage sectors I sort of mentioned. So pre-seed, you build the product, seed, you launch it. Post-launch means you start having sort of more data and some people are not comfortable investing before the company is in revenue. The good news is the whole gamut is actually feasible today as an angel because there are so many companies which are actually going through funding and accessible to people. Once again, figure out this equation of how much risks are you sort of comfortable taking on and the later stage you invest, the more data you have. Very different strategies. Some people want to be local. That was very VC, right? So investing in companies where you can actually drive for an hour or two, or maximum one or two. Coasts. So we do Silicon Valley and New York, Boston. So that's our strategy. You could sort of decide to invest anywhere and figure out how to support your investments and figure out what you you know, through Skype sessions. And there's a new strategy Steve Case is doing the rest of the rest, which is invest everywhere which is not a well-known sort of center for startups. Once again, all the strategies are valid. You have to sort of decide which one you're the most comfortable with. And then, you know, on the front-run side, so obviously because you invest at the lowest sort of valuation, your multiple will be the highest right but if ever you find an awesome company you want to double down and do the next round you're gonna sort of increase your price per share but you're gonna increase also the amount of capital on which the return multiple will apply there's once again no good answer It's whatever you guys are comfortable with. As an angel, I never did any follow-on. Do I regret it? Well, for the best deals, of course. But that was also my strategy, which said I assume that the return potential of angel investment will be higher than my follow-on in, you know, a Series A or a Series B. And if I was running the math, which I haven't done, I probably would have sort of, it would have been the case for everything but the top two or three deals, where even the Series A, the Series A investment would have generated like a massive return. So why is this important? This is what will drive the way you think about building a portfolio. If ever you have a buddy who is building a company and you want to support her or him, no need to think too hard about this. But if you really want to become a semi-pro angel, it's really important to define those characteristics. It will help once you've decided, for example, which sectors, like all this narrative I shared with you, right? This is something which becomes the natural filters for people who actually come to you with deals, right? I will tell you that I'm doing seed stage investment, million dollar average. I told you about our geographies. I told you about our sectors. Now you can send me deals because you know what I'm going to look at. It's a very natural filter. So expose those characteristics. and it's true for your inbound deal flow people sending you deals it's true for your outbound kind of when you reach out to an entrepreneur you sort of know what to look for because you have defined those characteristics one thing which is very important is because it's super risky to make those investments is have a sector and time based approach to spreading risk. So the reason why I suggest to say hey figure out your budget and invest it over three years is because time diversification is good. You never know, you know, even though in this in Silicon Valley we don't really have the notion of everyone invests when the market is good and everybody stops investing when the market is bad. It's always better to spread your investments over time. And sectors, unless you really want to double down on one sector you know really well, spreading it across sectors is a good way to avoid tanking. Example, meal kits. There was a time when there were like 12 or 15 meal kits companies. Blue Apron and Play-Date and so on and so forth. You may have wanted to have one, you don't want to do the 12 because the rule in those markets is always the best one makes a bunch of money, the second one makes some money and the rest wipes out. I like the fact that because you have this strategy, it's going to force your calibration, so what sort of deals will make it to the top of your funnel, and the pacing, because of what I just described. So that's it. That was your primer on asset allocation and portfolio construction. And once again, remember, the worst that can happen is that you lose everything, and so don't put all your cash in there. Good luck. Thank you, Jeff. As I mentioned before, again, we're going to have both come up and talk, and then we'll do a Q&A. I realized after I sat down that I got so excited that Jeff was going to come speak that I did a terrible job of introducing him. And what I really meant to say was there's been this transformation in early stage investing that took place over the last decade or so. took place over the last decade or so. And Jeff was actually one of the transformational characters in that story as these prolific angels emerged, who then often professionalized what they were doing, as Jeff has pointed out in his talk. And he became one of the very, very first super angels. And I think that was instructive to lots of us who are watching and trying to participate in the angel space. And he did that, he understood very early on to do that. instructive to lots of us who are watching and trying to participate in the angel space. And, you know, he did that. He understood very early on that to do that. And you've seen this with the other two investors you saw. They built personal brands. And Jeff built a very significant brand about himself. And the next investor who's coming up, Andrea has built an amazing brand around her, herself, her investing organization, I guess I should call it, called XG. And she's going to talk a bit about how you might think about building the brand that is going to allow you to become known, to become the sort of investor that great founders will want to have as part of your company. Andrea? Thanks, Jeff. Oh, I think I did that myself, actually. We go back to the beginning. Okay, I think I did that myself, actually. Go back to the beginning. Okay, so I'm Andrea, and... Okay, someone needs to take this away from me, because I feel like... Is it auto? Can we slow it down, then? Because it goes way too fast. We've got to give Run DMC some props before I clear that slide. This wouldn't be a real school. That's true. That's a good point. Clear that slide. That's true. That's a good point. Okay, cool. I didn't think I was that trigger happy. Okay. Okay. So Run DMC. Does everyone recognize, I hope, this band? No? Yes? No? Okay. So for those of you that may or may not recognize them, so they kind of made a name for themselves, I'd say probably in the 80s, a little bit into the 90s. Rap artist band and just really fun music that came out of that time period. But I think the reason why I have them sort of as my starter slide is that not only did they build a brand around their own name and band, you know, as rock stars, as rap artists, they also leveraged other brands. So if you can see in the slide, you know, they're repping Adidas basically. And they also were wearing like these, the brand at the time was Kangaroo and they were wearing Kangaroo hats. And I thought they just did a really phenomenal job of making what basically were sports brands, their own brands, and kind of making them like streetwear brands. And now to this day, Adidas is still a pretty popular brand and they continue to reinvent themselves. So anyways, that's why I thought I would kind of take a fun, bright approach to today, because I'm sure you've been absorbing lots of content, and I wanted to be able to impart some fun, kind of cool ideas that I'm hoping you can take away from today's presentation. Okay, should I be brave enough to do the next one? So what is a brand? I'm actually going to open that up to the audience. What are two of you guys, in your words, identify what a brand is? Any takers? Okay, yeah. Okay, promise of quality. That's good. I like both of those terms, promise and quality. Okay. Yeah, also good. Collection of interactions. Customers is a key term there. Absolutely. Yeah, also good, collection of interactions. Customers is a key term there. It's like DNA, identification. Absolutely, yeah, DNA. Only you. So people recognize you. Yeah, that's correct. Yep, so I just sort of have a smattering of exactly what everyone in the audience that participated sort of has already been saying. So, you know, obviously we have a few identifiers in here, not only consumer brands but also tech brands. I mean, obviously consumers like McDonald's, and we also talked about Adidas earlier. Here in the Valley, we have tech brands including Facebook, Google, Apple, and one would argue that a lot of those brands, you know, to all the points that were brought up today, when you think of Apple, you think of product innovation. When you think of Apple, you think of product innovation. When you think of Google, you think of search. You know, these are companies that have basically branded themselves based on, you know, what they are promising to deliver to their customers. Okay? So I thought it would be fun to take a look at, you know, what are the world's most valuable brands? Actually, before I put this slide up, I should have had you guys guess. So can anyone, without looking at this chart, tell me what they think is like the top brand as of last year, 2017? Don't look at the chart. Anyone? Yeah, Apple. Okay, you probably already looked at the chart. So anyways, sorry it's so tiny, but I just did a little screen capture. So anyways, sorry it's so tiny, but I just did a little screen capture. So this is coming out of Forbes of 2017. So Apple's the top brand according to this particular research piece. Apple followed by Google, Microsoft, although I would argue that. But anyways, and then Facebook, Coca-Cola, Amazon, and Disney. And then, of course, obviously the list goes down. But my point is, you know, these are the companies that we all recognize. And so what I would ask the audience today is when you think of these companies and you think about building your own personal brand, you know, how did these companies rise to this list? You know, how do they maintain themselves on this list? What are the qualities that embody these particular companies? And as you start to form your own brand and your own firm's brand, do you want to be seeing, you know, can you see yourself on a list of other angel investors and or micro VCs? So when I was thinking about putting together this presentation, I was also kind of thinking about, you know, what does the term brand mean? And we've kind of already been talking about this morning. We've kind of already been talking about this morning, and I thought Jeff Bezos of Amazon did a really good job of kind of distilling in one sentence what a brand is all about. And I really like this particular moniker, and he's basically saying your brand is what other people say about you when you're not in the room. And I think that's really important. Your reputation basically precedes you, and how do you want to identify yourself and be known, I guess, in the valley or whatever, you know, geographic region applies to you? And you want to be proud of that. Obviously, you don't want to talk, you don't want people talking smack about you. So you want your brand to precede you. And so, again, when I was thinking about putting together this presentation, I mean, obviously, I definitely don't want to tell you how to build your own personal brand. And I don't want to say, for example, what made XG Ventures unique is what is what going to make you unique, you have to kind of come to terms with that yourself. But what I wanted to do today is just kind of give you some things to think about. And just to kind of park in the back of your mind as you're starting to go down this journey and adventure of angel investing, keep these things in mind. And so when I was going through different image searches looking through Google, I pulled this one. And I thought, gosh, you know what? Brand is kind of interesting because it's brought up, it's sort of a combination of a lot of these different qualities like trust, loyalty, opinion, quality, perception. These are all kind of like loosey-goosey terms, but they actually mean a lot if you really take time and think about it. And then the one thing that wasn't on the chart that I added is integrity. And I think that's kind of an interesting term to keep in mind. And the only reason I bring that up is because, at least in the tech sector, and one would argue also in other industries and sectors, you really have to have integrity as a brand, like Uber is one example. You know, if you were an early investor in Uber, and you knew about all the challenges that they were having, you know, without kind of going through them all, but like the sexual harassment and all these other different things, what would you do as an investor? Would you raise your hand? Would you say something about it? You know, would you keep yourself quiet? yourself quiet? What are all these different things? And so just one thing to keep in mind as you do build out your brand, sort of think about what you're going to stand for ethically as well. So I'm sure you guys have heard about this a lot in the last couple days, but there are several different paths you can take. You can, if you think about doing angel investing, you can be a standalone angel investor. You know, how do you come up with your own personal brand? Or would you like to be a member of a group? I mean, one of the things that I did very early on is I recognized that I obviously was not an expert, and I still don't think I'm a total expert. I'm totally learning. But I joined an angel group. And that was probably one of the smartest things I did because I could learn from other people. And so you could still be an individual contributor, but you could also learn from a group. And so some of the angel groups out there, there's a ton of them. But one of the groups that I joined early on was called Sandhill Angels. And I thought it was kind of a cool segment of people from lots of different industries. So if I wasn't a healthcare expert, someone that worked at Johnson & Johnson was, and I was able to learn from that person. And so these are just some ideas of things to think of if you want to be an individual. You know, Jeff mentioned earlier that AngelList syndicate, you know, you can obviously go on and join other syndicates, or you could create your own syndicate on AngelList. There's a great association that I just wanted to throw out. It's called ACA. It's called Angel Capital Association. And that's sort of its own grouping, I guess, of other angel groups that you could search for if you're looking at joining one. Or you could create your own branded firm, which is what we did at XG Ventures. This was after I had made some good investments with Sandhill Angels. I had made some terrible ones. I had lost a lot of money. And I thought, okay, I need to regroup here. I need to think about what I want to do going forward. And that's what I'll talk about next. And then lastly, do you feel confident knowing what you're doing? Or can you strike out on your own? And then ultimately, you need to decide what's right for you. what's right for you. So who's XG Ventures? We like to call ourselves short XGB but we were super super lucky lucky not only do we recognize that obviously took a lot of work and effort but we were very fortunate at the time both my business partner Pietro Dova and myself we were super early at Google so we joined as sub-100 employees. I mean, I was there when there were basically only five desks in the building. There were very few people working at Google when I joined. But it was a very special time, and we learned a lot. And not only do we learn lots of different lessons, but we mostly learned the culture behind Google and what it meant, and don know, don't do evil, do things, keeping the customer in mind, great user experience, all these different things. So when Pietro and I decided to leave Google in 2007, we formed XG Ventures in 2008. And remember, I was doing angel investing on my own in 2007. So in 2008, we decided to join forces. And we thought, you know what, more heads at this, the better. At the time, we had two other business partners. They've since decided to kind of peel off and do their own thing. But basically, I'd say for the last, you know, probably eight out of those 10 years, Pietro and I have been doing XG Ventures on our own. And so what we wanted to do is very early on, we decided we wanted to create a brand. We wanted to be known for something, doing for something different. And so we recognized the power of Google, and we wanted to sort of capture that. So that's why the G in XG Ventures is a nice homage to Google. So we're essentially ex-Googlers, hence XG Ventures. And then we had a mission very early on. We wanted to be able to give back to the startup community from which we came from. We definitely were very humble going into angel investing as a business. We did not think that we had all the answers, but we definitely wanted, there was a little bit of altruism there. In addition to writing checks, we wanted to be able to dedicate our time and we wanted to be accessible. So we didn't want to be those quiet angel investors that just sort of wrote that first check and disappeared We were giving people, you know our cell phone number or email number. We'd meet them for coffee We were doing anything that it took just to help those particular companies get off the ground And then the other thing I wanted to point is out is that we did have a chance to raise a fund we decided not to just for personal reasons and We've been going ten years strong, and essentially it's our own capital. So we're considered an evergreen fund. And so what that means is that when a good deal comes along, we decide what type of check we want to write, whether it's, we joke like $0 or if it's in the high six figures. And then obviously we want to keep our pro rata. So on average, like Jeff was saying, we do about 10 to 12 deals a year, making room, of course, to continue to keep our current investments alive. And with that, we've built out over 100 portfolio companies. And I just included some logos here that you might recognize and actually want to use some of their companies, too. So we invest in something called Carta, which is pretty cool. A lot of startup companies use it. A lot of startup companies use it. A lot of law firms use it. It's a great way to kind of capture and manage all of your companies, your shares, your 409A plans, et cetera. I won't read all of them, or I won't go through all of them, but the other company we invested in is called Elle. Shift cars, third love, and we were super fortunate to be early investors in Wish. And we think we're keeping our fingers crossed that particular company goes IPO this year. And we've also been recognized in the industry. I'm not going to go through the different things. But as you brand yourself, I think someone else mentioned, you know, a good way of getting your own brand out there is to start blogging about things that are passionate for you. And be known in the industry for whatever that little niche is and that's a good way to be picked up as well. So that being said, the first draft of everything is totally shit. Like what I said before, I'm definitely not here to tell you what's going to work, what's not going to work. It's all trial and error. I think Jeff mentioned that, I'm sure other speakers have mentioned that as well. You have to be willing to fail in this industry, and it's going to take a lot of failures to get to those particular wins. So definitely you have to have fortitude to maintain yourself in this industry. And so we've made mistakes, and we've had some wins. So just like portfolio companies, just like startup companies, you may have to pivot. When you first come out in the industry and you think, okay, I'm only going to invest in AI or I'm only going to invest in drone technology or I'm only going to invest in, we actually invest in weed. We invest in some marijuana-based companies. You know, those particular things might change over time. And you have to recognize, like, it might just either be a fad or it might, you know, be something that's kind of cool and you want to make sure that that's something you do continue to invest in. But the bottom line is you might need to pivot. Be in it for the long run. We heard about, you know, this is not an overnight success industry. You can be wildly successful, but know that it's going to take at least 10 years for a decent return. And as an angel investor, you know what, you're not going to get into every hot deal. There are going to be some deals that you're going to like just kick and scream and wish you were in it. And it's just not going to happen either because the entrepreneur doesn't like you or you don't have the right connections or whatever it is. And at the end of the day, there's as much art in this as there is science. So you just be flexible that, don't take things personally, I guess, if you don't get into every hot deal. And don't invest. This is the same thing that we've heard before, don't invest in more that you're willing to lose. It's kind of like going to Vegas, and you know, you want to play all the tables, you know, you want to stay up to like two in the morning, but don't do that if you're not willing to like, you know, be willing to risk a lot. And then also, you know what, you're probably going to see some hot deals, and you're going to pass and then it's going to suck. So for example, I didn't list all of them. But we saw Uber super early on, I was very lucky to get invited to this dinner. Jeff was there as well. Jason Calquinas had a great connection with the founder of Uber. And I had a great time that night. I had awesome experience and it was stupid. I could have easily invested in Uber and I just decided to pass. You know, I totally regret that decision to this day, but it just goes to show that, you know, you might be in the right place at the right time and you still might make, you know, bad decisions. But on the other hand, you might make good decisions too. So just know that those things might happen and you have to be okay with it. And be happy for others that did invest. You know, don't be, you know, like, oh, it sucks. I wish it was me kind of thing. So you should be happy for those that did invest. And then branding, lastly, must be consistent. You know, a lot of these big brands don't happen overnight. You know, you have to have a consistent message, like show up to all the events that you get invited to, you know, return those emails, return those phone calls. You know, you can't just be like an armchair investor. You have to treat it as a full-time job. And then also something to keep in mind is that now that there are hundreds of thousands of firms, how do you stand out? Back in the day when we started 10 years ago or whatever, there were only a small handful of micro VCs. Now there's a ton of them. So just be mindful of ways that you can stand out in the industry. And then I put this up again just to remember like these are things that you should think of when building your brand. And then I'm going to kind of speed through this because I realize I've probably been talking for too long. But if we were to go through all the different things that define brand, for example, it's trust, loyalty, opinion, identity, perception, and quality. Trust really starts with your team. And for me, I'm fortunate enough to have a great business partner, Pietro Dova. He has operational expertise. He's a finance wizard, which is extremely helpful when we're looking at deals and just managing cap tables and things like that. My background is sales, by the way. But it's good to have someone that is your partner that might have skills that you don't have. That's what I was trying to say with that. So I guess going back to the beginning, like when you decide to go out and do your own thing, define what your focus is and innovate often. For our focus, we decided that we wanted to back entrepreneurs with an unwavering commitment to succeed. And for us, like, we sat down, we figured out, you know, okay, what defines XG Ventures? I think that's a good conversation to have with either yourself or your founder and make that your moniker. And we basically invest in disruptive technologies in mobile, social, cloud, analytics. Those things can change, obviously, over time. And again, what type of firm do you see yourself as? Jeff mentioned Pre-Seed. Pre-Seed's become kind of a hot new thing. There's another firm named K9 Adventures. Manu Kumar, who's done a great job branding himself, is a Pre-seed investor so do you want to do pre-seed early seed stage follow-on some investors only follow on investors so think about that as well and then do you have the right mix so for example are you an expert are you a generalist are you a tech person are you sales are you operational what's the value that you can give back beyond just writing a check? And then are you former entrepreneurs yourselves? Like maybe you can walk the walk and talk the talk with, you know, the founders that you're investing in. Are you operators? Or sometimes, you know, you could be a former VC, someone that's left a venture firm and decided to go off on their own. And then recruit carefully and decide what your structure will be. You know, you don't want just a bunch of hooligans on your team. You want to make sure that you recruit folks that represent your brand and identity. And then a couple more things that I think are important is that you want to align yourself with complementary firms across the entire ecosystem. Build your network. I can't say enough about this. Networking, networking, networking. Whether you keep track on LinkedIn or your social media, whatever it is, make sure you keep in contact with the important people. And are you connected to make the right introductions when needed? I think that's super important. There's a lot of money out there, which is great if you're an entrepreneur. But at the end of the day, you want people to help you when things are going bad, not just when they're going really well. So something to keep in mind there. And I just put this in here because we also do gaming technology, and noob is a reference to newbies, by the way. This I thought was kind of fun just to kind of break things up. So, you know, startup incubators, startup companies, we had a bunch of dogs going in and out of Google. It's startup incubators, startup companies. We had a bunch of dogs going in and out of Google. But just to keep it bright and brief, these two dogs are talking, and this person's saying she's nice, but she's got to do more towards building her brand before I can show her loyalty. So something just to keep in mind, again, branding is consistent. And then these are things, opinion matters. People talk. People talk in the industry. You don't think they do, but, you know, referrals are pretty strong here in the Valley. So just some things to keep in mind. Do you have that strong referral network? Can you be thought of as being top of mind? What's your reputation like? Do you have proprietary deal flow that maybe other investors might be interested in leveraging? Are you responsive? Do you have a personal connection? And lastly, I put this in here, do you hustle? I think angel investing, one of the big things is the hustle. You've got to be able to make sure you're there at the right time. Okay, so lastly, identity, or second to last, third to last. How do you manage your online presence? You know, do you maintain a website, or does someone maintain that for you? What's your social media structure like? Or are you stealth? There are some pretty cool angel investors that choose not to have any websites, and they just do their angel investing word of mouth. And that's kind of cool in its own right. Are you known for quality deal flow? And then which firms or other angels would you like to partner with? I think that's someone or something important to keep in mind, you know, like what are the other branded firms that you like and can, you know, maybe share some of the same value systems? And is it coopetition versus competition? I think some of the best angel investors don't necessarily compete against each other. You know, like all boats rise at the same time with the rising tide. Like you kind of want to be in it with other people that can share your wins. And then perception, we talked about before. Are you attending the right events? I mean, obviously we're fortunate enough to be here at Y Combinator. Are you going to the right Y Combinator events? Are you going to the other accelerator events, whether it's 500 Startups? There's a bunch of them. Are you getting those right invites? Let's see. One thing to keep in mind is do you play well with others? Do you keep all the good deals to yourself? I play well with others? Do you keep all the good deals to yourself? I mean, people talk and if you're always known for hoarding all the good deals, that's not a good thing either. It's good to kind of share your deal flow. This works well for anything that you do with angel investing. Respond quickly, even if it's to say no. And then strive for consistency and excellence in everything that you do and be a trusted resource. And the last thing is quality. I love this quote from Henry Ford. You can't build a reputation on what you're going to do. You can say you're going to do these things all day long, but actually following through is another thing. So try to make investments that matter. Identify what quality means to you and your investments. Do you want repeat entrepreneurs? Do you want new blood? Do you want new blood? Do you want to invest in a hacker, a hustler? What's your sweet spot for valuation? Build a portfolio that represents you, that you want to be proud of. And I put this last thing in here too, it says don't have any rando investments that you can't explain. You might think some company is cool, but you better be willing to explain it. Be responsive. Do what you say. Say what you do. Be respectful of other people's time. Know when it's appropriate to do certain introductions versus just filling in someone's inbox. So one thing that I always do is a lot of people will want introductions to folks that I know at Google or Facebook. Obviously, these are busy people. So I always like to ask their permission if they'd like an introduction before I just go ahead and introduce this person to them. So just little tricks like that. And then trust your instincts. That's the number one thing about angel investing. Listen to your gut. Nine times out of 10, it's usually right. And so in summary, think like a boss. At the end of the day, you're your own CEO. Be in it for the long haul. Start out slow. Build momentum. Build a reputation for the long term. Definitely be a resource. Have fun. It's great if you can make money, which is totally cool. And lastly, thank you so much. And I wish you guys all the best. Okay. We'll have a, I again apologize for running late, but there's a lot of great stuff here. We're going to do a quick Q&A, and then we'll move to our overtime with Ali Partovi. So the question is, you've been in the industry for a while, but I imagine you're still learning. Are there particular blogs, resources that you all use still today? Yeah, I can think of one. I don't know if this is on. I'll just be loud. So attorneys can be your best friends as much as they can also be challenging to work with. But there's an attorney. His name is Yoakum Taku, and he's written an amazing blog the title of it I believe is called startup lawyer and he's written the blog in a way that sort of like in layman's terms so it's very easy to understand and it's a great resource to go to as you first start out and it talks about what different term sheets look like in different valuations and so I definitely recommend that so actually trust the power of the network to deliver to me what is interesting or important so I use nozzle and use EZEL.com to sort of deliver the things that my network thinks is important and typically I see you know Fred Wilson or Brad Feld or Mark at Upfront posts, and that's how I associate with their work. As I mentioned, at investor.startupschool.org, every session has a resources component. There's some resources there now. We'll continually add resources like these. If you all send us to startupschool.ycombinator.com or to us personally, resources that you think ought to be included, we'll put them there and collect as many as we can. I have a question for you guys. You talked a lot about, Jeff, about portfolio construction. André, you talked a lot about branding. Were these things that you have sort of figured out later on and said, ah, we need to do branding or did you go as you started thinking, both of you, about your brand and about your portfolio as you went into the game? So, portfolio construction is typically something that your potential limited partners, so people who want to invest in your fund, if you decide to do a fund, will literally ask you, as the first question is, what's your portfolio construction? So, I started thinking about retrofitting my, you know... Let me tell you why my portfolio is like it is. It was very deliberate. And because there was this kind of hodgepodge of investments, you know, a bit of gaming, consumer, SaaS. And then I came up with this, you know, six-quadrant map where everything fit super neatly as if I had figured it out from the get-go, which I didn't. And then, you know, so it was a retrofit. And then the map is actually super useful to show people what you're doing. And to this day, 14 years later, we actually have it. So that's for the portfolio construction. It was after the fact, after three and a half years, because no one told me it was important. And then the brand, well, we just rebranded, so it shows that the first one we had kind of sucked and took a while to actually fix it. Sorry. Hold your mic. Hold your mic, Tom. Andrea? Yeah, I think for branding for us, I think it was mindful from the get-go, only because, like I said before, we're super fortunate to work at Google, and we didn't want to throw that opportunity away. So we just wanted to be respectful of that particular company and then kind of use it as a leverage, standing, you know, bouncing off point for ourselves. And we were mindful from the get-go, making sure that we had the right URL. And we've also done some legal stuff around protecting the brand as well. But that was just us. We were super buttoned up about it. But then the rest of it, I think, is just, you know, you've got to follow through on it. I mean, you can create a website, a URL, and have all the right protections in the world, but I think it's just, you know, you, yourself, and your team, you have to embody the message that you're branding and portraying. And it sounds like you knew that that from the very beginning as you got into the space the point also is that when we started there was literally no one doing it so there was no need to have a website and talk about your strategies and so forth because literally there were you know syndicates which were the 10 or 12 or 15 angels all in the deal you know support an entrepreneur and so it wasn't like today where you know give or take you have 600 sort of micro VC firms now so you need to be able to differentiate and point to all those resources because it's super important back then More questions. Yes back there So the question is around conviction. And if you look back at your best and worst investments, can you point out were you relatively high conviction on the best investments and low conviction on the worst investments or were your intuitions wrong? I think ideally you should only invest when you have high conviction because that's really what matters. So every time I made an investment where I had sort of a little bit of the spidey thingy kicking in where I felt there was something that may go wrong or whatever, I always wiped out. So when you have doubt, when you think that the founder is not up to it, when you think that the market isn't big enough or whatever, just pass. Because it's okay to pass on Uber, Airbnb, and LinkedIn, and Pinterest, and Wish, and everything. It hurts, but it's fine. But the point is, every time I've fucked that up, it was a wipeout. The total conviction fails, that's what you do as an angel, right? But what you don't want is to be sort of, hey, I have total conviction, but I'm just going to put a small amount. And then it's a success which would have a massive implication for you, but didn't because you put in just a small amount. So to me, ideally, I only invest now in things that I truly believe in. Yeah, I wish I had more intuition because it's kind of ironic. Some of our biggest winners, so to speak, have been those companies that maybe we've only put just a little bit in because at the time we weren't feeling as bullish. We're like, I don't know, I've got some question marks around that one. And then that ends up being the winner. We're like, damn it, why did we not double down on that investment? So if you're a poker player, you know that you look back at the hands where you made the wrong decision. You folded when you shouldn't have. You went all in when you really shouldn't have. And you look back, and some of those mistakes, you still did the right thing. It's just that was the way things happened. When you guys look back at your mistakes, do you think in retrospect that most of them were avoidable? Or is that just the name of the game? So for the companies that we invested in, wiped out, I mean, that's what happened. Sometimes we ended up sort of backing entrepreneurs that just didn't have the the passion and the Energy that took to really sort of go for it. So we could we should have had a better filter and hopefully our filter is better The ones that we missed I think you know, I always joke about my entire portfolio because it's incredible But the only one only one company I regret is LinkedIn because I don't have any rational reason to have passed on LinkedIn. I just chickened. Whereas Uber, I wasn't clear that the CEO at the time would actually be the right CEO, and he wasn't. So it is what it is. He wasn't once they were worth $50 billion. No, no, no. So let me ask Travis whether he was going to be the CEO of Uber, and he said no. And had Travis been the CEO then, not that I have any qualms against. So Ron Graves has done an amazing job. But I thought that it would take a Travis to actually get Uber off the ground. And, you know, I passed. And then a few weeks later he became CEO and I was like fuck and I couldn't get back in but I think for the ones where we put a bunch of money and then the companies sort of had a good trajectory and then flattened I think it's always sort of tricky because VCs tend to invest on positive signs way ahead of the game because of the fear of missing out. And so you look at some of our companies which have gotten massive valuations and super large rounds or whatever, and now I've had the talk with those entrepreneurs and said, look, that round doesn't mean shit in terms of success. And you have to sort of drill it in the head of your team members, because they will say, well, we raised a bunch of money and we're successful. No, no, it's just an enabler. And so being super careful about not getting ahead of your skis and not seeing success before their success is one of the key risks we have. Yeah? You were explaining that we're is one of the key risks we have. Yeah. You were explaining that we're super angels now. What has been the biggest change in your life in investing like a super angel? So I guess this question is, you're both sort of super angels, although Jeff has raised a fund which makes it a little different. What's the biggest difference in investing like a super angel versus like an angel? Well, I think it's not so much. The super angel just reflects the portfolios that we've built with our own capital, right? So Andre has done like 100 deals, which is incredible. The key thing people expect from us as an corork is to be sort of a lead investor. And so we take board seats, we write a million dollar check on average. And I think it's the responsibility which is now on our shoulders to be almost the ones in the syndicate that will also really look after and take care of the company. So I think this is when we became sort of professionals. That's what we do. If ever a company fails, it's partially on me as well. So I think it's this expectation that the market has on us now to sort of play that role. And to be honest, that's when entrepreneurs come to us as well. I imagine you construct, both of you probably construct your check size differently now than you did when you were beginning. How do you guys think about, I'm sure many people here are, as they mull over what their portfolio is going to be and how they're going to invest and how many companies are going to invest, and they're thinking of what check size should I write? And I think everyone's a little bit terrified of the phenomenon that Andrea mentioned, which is, okay, I have a chance to invest in Uber, and I invested $5,000. If I had just invested $100,000, it would have been very different. Michael Seibel actually said yesterday, write the right size check. How do you think of what the right size check is? Well, for me, I mean, when you first start out, I would definitely not recommend writing like a hundred thousand dollar check in your very first company. Cause I think that's a little bullish unless you have some insider information and you feel pretty strong about it. Uh, cause it's going to hurt. And my first couple of investments did not work out FYI. Um, but I think the other thing to be mindful of is now, I mean, if you're fortunate enough to take a look at what could potentially be like the cap table structure or however, you know, the entrepreneur is deciding to structure $50,000 is like the sweet spot to kind of make a difference I think anything less than that you know you might be you might be lucky but I think $50,000 is typically the sweet spot so here is the brutal math right you're going to invest in about 40 companies per fund. And if you look at the distribution of returns, only four or five will matter. Only four or five will actually return the fund. And so, as Andrea said, it's walking back from the ownership calculation. So if we lead a round, we will take 10% of the company. So we'll write whatever check size it takes to take 10% of the company. So we'll write whatever check size it takes to get 10% of the company. So if it's a 10 post deal, boom, million dollars. And then we'll try and maintain that ownership as long as we can, series A, series B, in order to sort of get to a terminal ownership when the company IPOs or sells of 5% to 7%, which means a billion dollar 10% ownership, $100 million back to the fund equals fund back. And if you do that for five times per fund, you have a winner. Okay, so many of you won't even be thinking about funds, so you might think that what Jeff said isn't relevant to your particular case. But I would argue that it is it's just what you should do what you'll notice there is he's done the math and you should do the math so estimate how many investments you will make over a period of time per year you know as a as a as a um as someone with LPC has funds and he does it for that but you can create your fund to say I'm going to invest a million dollars, as Andrea mentioned. And out of that a million dollars, I'm going to do 20 investments. I'm going to do $50,000. And here's how many I think are going to make it, and here's how many, how I think the one or two wins I might get there will be. And let me look at what's going to happen there and does that make sense? And understand your math very deeply and understand how you're going to think about that and that will help you figure out what check size you're going to write. Maybe just a couple more questions here. I've already forced them to overstay their time here a lot. Yeah, back in the room. I was wondering if the non-practice at all or the out-practice you're asking for the validation, I'm going to sort of interpret this as, you figure if you invest in this deal, which you don't really care about, you somehow get into another deal. Sort of, I think the term he used was a gateway deal. Have you ever experienced that? So I think in the very early days, so we're talking 2004, 2005, when I was a nobody in the ecosystem and I had zero deal flow, I was trying to sort of figure out what you call gateway deals were, where I wasn't super convinced about everything, but everyone around the cap table was actually super smart and had access. And so I think the one gateway deal I did in the early days was Feetster, which was one of the very first RSS search engine where it wasn't a success, but the syndicate, that was my first deal with Josh Koppelman, for example. And so getting in that deal allowed me to get to know a bunch of people. Would I have had the same outcome without Feetster? Yeah, probably. But I wouldn't do too many of those because at the end of the day, you know, it's your track record, it's your money. Sort of don't go into a deal if you think it's going to be a disaster because it's going to be. Because if you think it's going to be a success, probably will be a disaster. But if you think it's gonna be a disaster and you don't even touch it. The best gateway deal, in my opinion, is a successful deal. It's true. Which one? Okay, one more question right here. Do you monitor your portfolio to look at factors which lead you to seek out a particular type of investment or patent that would otherwise be attractive? Do you super concentrate it in like, which would lead you to seek out a particular type of investment or patent? Do you actually not do deals based on how your portfolio is currently constructed? So, for example, would you avoid more meal deals? More meal deals if you've already done too many? Is that the question? Or maybe seek out investments based on the portfolio construction that you're looking for? I was just going to say, so for us, one of the industries that we used to like investing in was gaming, because we used to think like, oh, we had some early successes, Tabulous, a few other things like that. And then we learned later that the gaming industry is very difficult, and it wasn't producing the same returns that we were looking for. And so that's one particular industry that we pivoted from, just because there were a lot of signals in the marketplace that made it difficult. So that's something that we passed on. And then the other piece of that is sometimes if we're overly concentrated on certain things in our portfolio, we'll stop looking at them. So, for example, one of the things that we did do early on, based on my background, is advertising-related companies. And then we just got too concentrated in those. And they were the same thing. The industry, there weren't that many exits happening at the time, so we thought, you know what, we're already concentrated in that, let's wait and see, let's concentrate on another industry. Those are great examples of companies which are, or sectors which are challenging in terms of actually getting to an outcome. I would say have your principles, have your investment strategy with the know, with the factors. Don't do too much backtesting because, you know, for example, I'm going to say we're going to do 50% of Fund5 in SaaS companies. I'd actually don't check whether we're at 50%. And at the end, we're around 50%. So we're sort of fine.'s more indicative for the LPs what you want to avoid at least we do is any sort of overlap or competition between your companies so if ever you're in one meal kit company you shouldn't do another one because by definition you work with one entrepreneur you've made one bet he or she is your entrepreneur and that's it and you have to stick to that if you bet on the right horse and you win, awesome. If you're in one of the other 10, too bad. That was your bad. You want to be cautious. You don't want to be so fixated on numbers. Because remember, companies will have a multi-agency rate of 30%, 40% between season series anyway. And so a lot of your positions will not be the ones you have at the end of the portfolio life. Jeff, Andrea, thank you so much for coming in. Thank you. Thank you so much. you