 So you started your company this year. I did. Why? Great question. So I, this actually ties into my past, actually. So I was at Google for eight years. I started as their first filmmaker with the Creative Lab. I moved on five years later into the Google VR, on the Google VR team, which is now the Google AR VR team. I don't know. They might be different now. I don't know. but the um so I became the principal filmmaker for VR at Google which again is talk about titles it's like the fanciest of titles it was very cool um so I helped develop uh so Jump which was their VR live action kind of capture ecosystem for live action VR footage. And I was making stuff and working with the engineers. And the more that I was working there, I think I found it was very, very tough to be reactive. In the beginning, it was super easy because it wasn't like VR was still pretty new and no one really knew what we should be doing with it yet. And then once it started to solidify, it was much harder to turn the big ship towards the things that I thought were important. Namely, you know, I thought that there was something, some really interesting parallels between the machine learning team and the Google brain team, and also what was happening on the VR team. And just in terms of the mediums, how similar they were both in how they've become more present in our lives, how they both kind of were like, everyone's really excited, and then, oh, no, it doesn't work. And then it was like, wait, we found this weird thing that actually makes it work great. So for VR, it was like cell phone technology. Actually, we have it in our pocket. We can make this stuff work. And with machine learning, it was like, wrong like it's actually preventing us from doing the right thing and then and teaching these you know systems how to learn and so suddenly they both are on this trajectory and from a creative standpoint you could see some really interesting stuff coming from both teams and I felt that there was a lot of ways that we could work together on stuff I also felt that there were lots of interesting pockets of artistic pockets where we could create content. It wasn't going to be like, you know, with the big studios. It wasn't going to be like the big IPs. It was really going to be in these places that needed it probably more than Hollywood and, you know, like thinking about ways that it could be functional and helpful for people. Yeah. But also be artistic. Like it didn't have to be boring. It's not just functional. Yeah, yeah precisely like function is actually good because like films actually serve a function serves a purpose you know and so vr could also do it any sort of immersive content can so i thought it was all and i had before also like worked with um i had worked on some stuff uh kind of envisioning what the future would be like when glass was around yeah and it clearly worked because everyone now is wearing glass, so we're great. So for me, it was like I'm really interested in this other layer of immersive stuff, but I also believe that it's not one technology or another technology. I believe it's all kind of going towards something. They're all going to work together. So a combination of that belief and wanting to be more reactive and honestly just working on the stuff that I felt was important to me to work on um I you know once once that all sort of became more clear I felt that once I had left Google the best course of action for me was to actually create my own company and so Vray Pictures um is the company um we Vray and, uh, it has all the letters in it. Yeah. Meaning V-R-A-I. V-R-A-I. Uh, but, uh, so I didn't want all the letters in my name cause I always thought that that was a little weird for me. I mean, I've, it exists in the, in the ecosystem. And some people wear it really nicely. Uh, for me and my company, I was like, I don't know. I don't know if I want that. And then I was in Paris with my partner and he had said, I had asked him, you know, what's the word for true? And he had known I was looking for a name. So he immediately was like, hold on. And he took a pen and he wrote it down. He goes, that's what it is. And the word for true in French is vrai. So V-R-A-I means true and actually means real, depending on how you use it. So at that point, you're like, OK, well, I can't not. And so, you know, you can pick it apart even and think, you know, it's visual arts, it's mixed reality, it's all these various things that we talk about will all come together, work together in really wonderful ways and actually lead to whatever this new immersive environment will be. And I think right now we're seeing each as these separate paths and I think it's really not going to matter. I think you see the same thing happens in science. It's happening right now where physicists and mathematicians and cs people are all learning python yeah and like it's converging yeah one thing right just through computers right so like it maybe your deep dream deep dream project is like the most like clear example i think it is yeah i mean that was really funny because um that's sort of in Seattle, uh, so the jump team I think is still in Seattle. I don't know, but they, uh, so the engineers that are working on the, like the computer vision people that are working on the Google, like live action VR rigs, uh, are planted in Seattle at the same office. And it used to be on the same floor as, uh, uh, as the, um, uh, Google machine learning team that was literally adjacent, like next to each other. Never really. Not intentionally. Kind of. Well, they're both computer vision teams. Okay. So I think that was the whole, that was the reasoning behind, I don't know, but I would visit the Seattle team. And then I was fortunate enough to make friends with the, with this particular machine learning team. AI team is run by this guy machine learning team, AI team. It was run by this guy, Blaise Aguirre-Arquez, who's amazing. So him and some friends of mine who were working on this team were literally sitting two feet away from us. And I had gotten an email from Clay, actually, on the Google VR team saying, AR VR team or whatever, had emailed me and put me in touch with, with them saying, you know, they're actually, they're announcing deep dream. They really need a video person to help them out. And so, um, you know, they're asking me what I had. I originally just showed them stills of, uh, the stuff that I actually filmed in VR. Um, and we started having this conversation around, well, I was trying to push on them the idea that I actually filmed in VR. And we started having this conversation around, well, I was trying to push on them the idea that, well, if you're able to dream up on top of the stills of these VR clips, then surely you could do it in such a way that we can actually experience it in VR. Yep. And it was a bit of a back and forth being like, well, the fidelity might not be that great. It'll be low res. I don't know if it's going to be interesting. And then finally they, they, uh, uh, Doug Fritz, who, uh, was working on the team at the time. And he, he actually gave it a shot, um, worked his magic and we were like, oh, this is actually kind of compelling. Yeah. Um, we don't know what it is. I mean, we're just like dreaming up on stuff. And it was really fun because I think there was no expectation. It didn't fit on a roadmap. It was literally just us working together to see what we can come up with. And we actually worked with Ross Goodwin on having his system, which was trained on Faulkner and Vonnegut separately, to actually write prose about what it saw. And then it would recite it using this voice, Myra, which is an Irish dialect-speaking Apple voice, Apple Mac OS voice, which made it really just unbearable because it was like, and we both sort of like, this is kind of interesting, but it's like, it sort of calls to mind, like less is more in a VR space. It's like once everything's like kind of acid trippy, like hearing this like Irish American speaking, fabricated lady speaking Vonnegut interpretations to you, just doesn't, isn't ideal. um ideal right okay hell on earth so we uh we sort of used it with caution yeah yeah I mean it makes sense when you like change out every variable it just completely throws you for a loop yeah because it's all kind of close but sort of nonsensical it is I mean I think what's great about what ross does is that it actually does it is very poetic but it gets dark very quickly because well at vonnegut vonnegut's a little bit more upbeat but falkner is like um you know like yeah so uh i i consider her a she because i hear myra all the time but it's she's she sort of says these phrases that are like sometimes very kind of like normal normalized about like the world like you know a man with a hat on a hilltop you know why is he there what is you know she'll go off on that and then she'll then she'll be like the darkness it looms it looms for me or something and we're all just like this is this is weird you know um again it's like us interpret i mean what's interesting is that there's it's all pretty surface stuff um and the the depth is stuff that we bring to it which i i really thought i think that part to me is very fascinating like how we interpret it is really where the story where the emotional like foundation comes from so this is actually like a big topic I wanted to jump into, which is like framing, right? So in cinema, obviously it's a director, a cinematographer working together to create the picture that transmits a story to you. Sure. But in VR, like obviously you have a certain amount of control, but how do you think about that? Like the framing in the storytelling? Oh, so I don't think it's storytelling and i think that's the main problem is that people think you know i think story is extremely important to the medium i think storytelling is kind of like it's sort of like you want to get to something that's important so you take a pill to make you feel that way like say like um a sleeping i need to go to sleep i need something to help me sleep so i'm gonna take a pill to make you feel that way? Like say like, um, a sleeping, I need to go to sleep. I need something to help me sleep. So I'm gonna take a sleeping pill. I don't have to recommend that. I'm not saying that's something you should do. It's just something that some people do. Um, I think storytelling is the act of taking that pill. So it's like, yeah, you may take that pill. You might, you for film, storytelling was the way that you got to story. And a lot of mediums, the telling part was actually really important because you couldn't actually take those people and put them where you were thinking. And now you're in a medium where you can. So telling doesn't really work anymore. You don't need that. It's like, if you think of it as, you know, kinetic versus potential story, right? So kinetic is storytelling, it's the idea that actively, I am trying to take you and put you over there. So it's this kind of active thing that's that's occurring. For VR, the way that I've been looking at it is it's more potential story. It's I'm crafting worlds that you worry if when you go there, the story is something that you can decode. Right. So it's like, how do these worlds transmit the story or represent the story? Right. So that no matter how you interact with that world, you're able to sort of decipher or get to the core values of what that story is trying to transmit. Okay. It's a bit in the same line as in like an Aesop fable in a way. It's a bit in the same line as in like an Aesop fable in a way. It's like slow and steady wins the race if that's what you're going for. It's not about the turtle or the bunny. It could be anything, right? Yeah. It's about that's the core value of the story. That's what we want the takeaway to be. And so in my mind in VR or any immersive content, if you can get that piece, that truth transmitted to that person. It doesn't matter what kind of experience they have. They walk away with what was most important to you in the first place. And how do you think about that in the context of, you know, video games? Do you think that is just a transition to immersive content? Do you think it's, it's there for certain games already? I think certain games provide what's interesting about games for me is, is this idea of flow, um, which is, it's very musical in nature. The best games are where they give you the capacity to explore at your leisure. You know, some of my favorite games have been like something like mist, you know, actually love red dead redemption a lot because, you know, yeah. Okay. It's really stressful. This, this like, this like rail that we're putting you on, maybe you just want to take a break and train some horses over there. And that's fine. And then you can duck back into the story when you want to. This idea that you can be in a completely explorable place, you can do all sorts of things that you want, but then there is this rail that you could go on and duck in and out of. I think that, to me, is very compelling. Myst had that same sort of rail as well. It is definitely a different kind of game if it's like, okay, you do have this and that's all you can do and you can't move forward until you do that. Like a Super Mario Brothers is a great example. Any of the earlier games were like that. Literally. Literally, yeah. Side-scroller. Sure. And I mean, I think that's something that we need to be aware of as as creators in the space too when we talk about games we don't meet if there's no it's not a catch-all yeah like different games serve different purpose different purposes pong's different than super mario brothers which is different than miss which is different in some ways or a lot of ways from red dead redemption too like red dead redemption at least gives you you know elements that are you're used to dealing with. Like it, it works sort of similarly the way the world works. Um, like, okay, that's a gun, that's an evil person. That's like, it's easy to kind of decipher it in mist. The whole point was that you had no idea what you were doing. You're pulling lever. The first thing you do is there's a book on the ground and then you go and then there's a lever and you don't know what the lever freaking does you pull it and nothing happens and you're like was is this going to be the rest of the game yeah and it is right i feel like i don't really know what these things do and many of those games like pre-internet were so hard now you just go on youtube and it takes two minutes to figure out what you're doing yeah i know i know actually one of my uh there was an old game from the 90s called Amber Journeys Beyond, which is actually, has been an inspiration on a recent project. And it's really great because there's some, well, it was just a really great game. It was sort of a missed-ish copy made by two guys. I don't think they made anything after that. But they ended up, well, you can't play it anymore unless you have an emulator and a piece of hardware that will help you run it. But there's a bunch of playthroughs on YouTube. And I actually sat there with a glass of wine and literally watched my... I remember it was such a beautiful experience actually, where I'm like, okay, I actually love watching other people play these games. And the commentary is really beautiful too. I think one of my recent favorite games is from Davey Reed in The Beginner's Guide. It's wonderful because it literally sets it up and says this is a 45 minute game. Because most of these games you're like, I don't know if it's going to take up my life. But it's basically you're on rails, but it's him, and he kind of gives you, he voiceovers it, and it's about this other game creator who's created kind of these weird psychological, like, very basic games. So, like, it's weird. It's like he builds this character that you never see, and this character is someone you explore through the pieces of games that this character has made. Yeah. And Davey is taking you through it as if he knows this person. But then you start to question whether or not this narrator actually knows this person or not, or if this person gave Davey the permission to showcase his games like this. So suddenly you start to question everything as you're going through this kind of game, I think it's really brilliant. I think any game that kind of takes the format and then through your interactive, through the interactivity, through your agency, kind of makes you feel these different things. I think that's a huge win for games, especially, and I think that is where immersive needs to go. And I think that is where immersive needs to go. Florence, which I think just won the Apple Design Award for best designed game. This guy, Ken Wong, who was the designer on Monument Valley as well, started his own company in Melbourne. He's an amazing creator. And this game, Florence, is all about you use your phone the way that you would normally use your phone. this game Florence is all about using, you use your phone the way that you would normally use your phone, but the story you feel for the story based upon the way that you would feel for like conversations and interactions with your phone. So moments of frustration is like, you know, not hearing back from the person for like three minutes, like that kind of thing. Like latency, all those things. Yeah, absolutely. Like how fast you like, how you reveal things, like the whole idea of swiping. It's just very smart. And I think that's the thing. It's not, we try to shove a lot of this stuff through preconceived notions and conventions where embracing how technology works now and using those limitations as a means of telling a story in some capacity or understanding a story in some capacity. I think that to me is really fascinating. Have you played, have you played the game? This is really embarrassing because I met the creator. I think it's called like black box or something, the iPhone game, where it's all the puzzles. So for instance, like one of the puzzles, you have to put your phone in a freezer and the temperature has to hit a certain amount and then you unlock it that's brilliant yeah that's exactly the stuff like that where i'm like that's just so because it it makes you question your like relationship with a device totally you know and i think that's an interesting thing because that the the the that story yeah is potentially as good as some of the films that you've seen. Of course. You know, and again, it's like, it's not one-to-one, but it still gets you to the same place mentally and emotionally. Yeah. So, okay. So when you left Google, did you have a project in mind or were you just going to client stuff? I wasn't sure what I was going to do. I just knew that I needed to go. I think that the, the, um, what I ended up doing first was I took, I kind of got a lay of the land, sort of explored what other people were doing, talked to some folks, um, thought about the things that I wanted to do. I think for me, I needed a little bit of time to sort of get a sense of what was out there. It's difficult because when you work for a company for that long, you're like, oh, okay, like my problem was water, water everywhere, but not a drop to drink kind of where it's like, oh, I have all this stuff. Yeah, yeah. But I can't do anything with it. And then one of my limitations was like beyond that was, you know, I had seen where interactivity was going. I had a lot of ideas for that. I could see where augmented reality and VR could talk to each other, where machine learning techniques and VR could talk to each other. I couldn't do any of that other than the stuff that I could kind of sneak through. I think in Frustration I made what I believe to be sort of like a VR GIF type thing, which was the Weather Channel project that I did. That was my favorite one. I don't need to be down on you because i know there are other really ambitious ones but that was my favorite yeah it's most people's favorites because they get it it's like immediately apparent it's and it's also like it's hilarious yeah yeah but that's and it's one of the things that people are always asking was well how do we make comedy in vr and they try to bring comedians in and I'm like, it's not, it doesn't have to be a literal thing. You know, you don't, it doesn't have to be like slapsticky or like, here's, you know, fricking like Jerry Seinfeld telling you a joke. Like it's, it's literally just like, what, what is the human condition? Like, what have we created for ourselves in light of spaces and experiences that are just inherently funny yeah um and the weather channel just happens to be like watching the weather channel is one of those things oh totally it was very adult swim it's like it's a little infomercials yeah it was really great and i think that to me and i made that in a day yeah that's not surprising yeah no but i mean but considering how long it usually takes to make vr of course it's insane and i can show it to anyone on my phone i don't care if they watch it on youtube in low res or high res like it's one of those things that you could just show anyone and i i i love that stuff and i i still think that that stuff's very important as well um so it's all that stuff and just this idea that uh i felt that i yeah again being reactive seeing how everything works together creating a wide variety of stuff I think I did want to but I also really wanted to to create like I had to work in a three doff environment or like a three like 360 stereo environment which for me was actually really great because it forced me to understand how something like just looking around, um, was still very interactive. Um, it wasn't, and cause I think that, that, and how we actually experience a space and how those spaces engage with us, that is the, that is an important part of this medium. Um, I don't know if I wouldn't necessarily come to that conclusion if I had made it immediately like volumetric and six doff and you can, you know, you can speak whale. Um, so for me, I think that was, it was important to have those limitations so that I could see within the, or I could explore within the medium, just some of the basic building blocks of what made it so special. But that said, I really wanted to make volumetric stuff, whale calling VR experiences. I just wanted to do more. And I wanted to work with different technologies and different VR companies and really expand what I was doing. And I felt as someone who was in the space early enough and who had the fortune of sort of being around the medium and it's sort of second resurgence. I felt that I had the opportunity at that moment to actually do some good. Yeah. Um, so, so what's coming out next? So I can't, yeah, I was thinking about what I could talk about. Um, and I can't, I feel like I, I've been told I need to be patient and probably not talk about anything yet but I think I can say that one of the things that has been really amazing is um uh the response to me going solo ish was really was pretty good I mean it was like I got so many people coming up wanting to work with me and you know pretty like big names and IPs and so on. Um, so the, the, the, the projects that I have, I can say that there are four projects. Um, one is with a pretty big IP, uh, which is a series, um, which we're in development with right now. Um, I'm still working out how that will work, but we were excited about it. Um, the, um the and uh i feel like that's really interesting because that's both it's it's something that explores um uh the biopic and how we reimagine that sort of uh experience in vr um in a way that that feels like a journey it feels like you're going somewhere special yeah um so that that's sort of the crux of the series would be awesome because biopics are so bad usually the music ones are so disappointing every time. Well, the first one out of the gate will be a music one. Great. So that should be, that should be fun. Hopefully you blow the doors off of it. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. No, I think, but it's difficult because I think music for me was an important part. Plus this particular person is a very epic cultural icon. So it's a wonderful, it's been a very interesting experience getting to know who this person is on a deeper level, many levels. The second project's with an architect who's pretty well known. And it's sort of a, it's a combination of, it's more exploratory kind of figuring out what we should be doing with his work. Third is a game, a fringe game, probably more in the weather channel sphere, which I'm very excited about because it's ridiculous. And I think, but I feel like there would need to be a game that was more like what kind of helped do what Pong did for folks where, you know, I wanted to have a game that was simple enough that people could all understand and play and would be also sort of an introduction to like what immersive stuff was. Was that not Pokemon Go? Pokemon Go to me is still a bit complex for folks. Like, I feel like it's, it's, I think it totally helped people get the hang of things. I'm thinking about like what can be uniquely VR, like, you know, like not taking an original IP, like a Pokemon. It's more like, can we create something that is from the ground up something that was built for this space okay um uh based upon like thinking about the way the defaults are built thinking like thinking more in that like kind of retro grade like basic geometry oh all right yeah not not like complex character world yeah but complexity comes with it longer conversation um so uh and i think the fourth what is the fourth one that one sorry i'm trying to think it's really hard to keep them straight um that's okay and the fourth one the fourth one is actually um uh an immersive audio project dot dot dot all right next question but i also but real quickly i think that immersive audio is great i think we talked about this before yeah i feel that there's you know as the visual fidelity changes all the time and as someone who creates in the space it's annoying because like every time a headset comes out you have to re-export like for specifically for live action i think it's probably a bit easier yeah for probably i'm gonna hear back from people being like it's not easier and volumetric or six off but the but the audio guys are like we good you know like just like lean back like yeah i'll re-export it as whatever kind of like you need a 5.1 here you need like you know like what kind of ambisonic what kind of spatialized like file format and and it's very i'm not this is not to they are extremely talented like the right the people who are talented are amazing of course people who know how to do it are incredible um it just feels like that stuff is so important in terms of selling you being in a space um and it's again people were trying to think of it second so i want to be part of the i want to lead help lead the charge and like it's first for me um yeah i totally agree with you like that's uh people don't realize that you could shoot this podcast on a motorola razor from 10 years ago yeah video and then use these mics and that would be good enough yeah audio is so much more important than hd anything It absolutely is. And no one gives it any love. No, I mean, I'm thinking about the Weather Channel piece again, it's like Kenny G really hit it out of the park. Oh, of course. I understood that in one second. I was like, yeah, I get it. Sold. Understood. Yeah. All right, let's go into all the twitter questions um so first question sure andrew peterman andrew peterman asks how long until we'll be able to create 3d 360 video from cell phone uh hardware and some kind of software uh ballpark guesstimate oh i mean you can kind of do that now yeah i think it's pretty good already yeah um it's a storytelling challenge or not, whatever, whatever. What's the word you want to use? No, a story. I mean, I can speak to what, what is the, what's the question? I mean, the question is like, rather than storytelling, what would you prefer to say? Oh, Oh God. I don't know. World building. That's the one that I can think of. It's weird. Again, it's like the director question. We don't really know what to call it. So we just, it can be anything. Close enough. OK, cool. Story crafting, narrative. Narrative is good. You know, creating a narrative. I'm trying to think back to all the decks I've made in the past couple months. And I think there are a few where I've definitely used narrative, story, crafting story, crafting experience, making experiences. i think time will tell yeah yeah not the most important thing another uh no it's all semantics it's like you just make stuff that's that's meaningful and oh no totally it's like the hardest part is any creative person you're like dude i know you want to put me in a box so here's the box but i'm gonna do it yeah that's been i actually created this, I love this because I haven't used this phrase in a while, but I came up with, um, in my earlier, my earlier days of working, I was trying to explain when I was putting this together for a, for a presentation, I noticed it and I was like, either I can pretend like that's not the acronym or I have to call that shit out. And so I basically called it out. It was like, I know, but in the beginning of every medium, you know, people are going to say some weird shit and it may not last, but here you go. And, um, uh, yeah, people, actually the response was very positive. Because I think sometimes people are so serious, like, well, this is what this is called. And it's like, well, it doesn't have to be, it can be called anything. We can call it cheeseburgers and it'd be like, no matter. Yeah, and if you have the confidence and you make cool stuff, no one's gonna be like, oh, that's not Like Jessica's wrong. Yeah. Dude, I make the cool stuff. Another VR future question. Matt asks, where do you see VR in 10 years? I don't see it being called VR. Okay. Sure. Like, I just don't see it. I think that it's all going to go to a different kind of place. I think, yeah, I think it'll be called something else. Related, Michael Hodap asks, does VR, or whatever you want to call it, still have long-term mass adoption potential, or will the market shift to AR, so Magic Leap, Apple Glasses, stuff like that? No, I think that's already happened in a lot of ways. I think you can see that just in the shift of Google's team's name. It was Cardboard, then Google VR, then Google VR like, like the team's name. It's like, it was Google, it was Cardboard, then Google VR, then Google VR Air, then Google AR VR. So it's like, you know, they don't really, it's like people are still, they're trying to be like, okay, what's going to be the most, um, what's going to be the easiest thing for people to grok? The there's part of, there's an AR project that I'm working on or will hopefully be working on that is similar where it's, you know, everyone has phones in their pockets. Everyone can download apps. So there are these two things that are like easy enough for people to grok where it's like, okay, I get it. It's not like I have a new piece of hardware that I have to learn. I think that I still have a hard time finding compelling content on AR in the AR sphere as well. So I think similarly to like where VR is going to be in 10 years, I think that a lot of these technologies, which are by themselves, have weaknesses, weak spots, will, when together, kind of fulfill each other's gaps, fill each other's gaps. So like you can imagine, okay, AR is great because it's the most accessible thing. You build a relationship with a particular app that leads you into the VR space because now you actually, because with VR, it's like you kind of need people to care enough to want to do it. So if you have an AR experience that is compelling enough, that does speak to you on some emotional level and the fact that VR, a VR experience can be there to help like expand upon that. Like that's a simple, like off the top of my head way that those two could work together. Yeah. Is it compelling to you that the notion that in pick a number of years, people will be in VR for a significant percentage of their day? I mean, people kind of are, aren't they? I mean, with computers and cell phones, like we spend so much time on the internet. I mean, if you really wanted to, you could probably go to that level of like, well, we spend so much time not here as it is. So it's like, I mean, we've seen the effects of that in some way. It hasn't destroyed us, but it's had ramifications to the way that we work, live, have relationships and so on. So I think I had a, I think I told you that story about the hedgehogs and the, like the plasma screens. So I went to the lounge at Heathrow and I saw these plasma screens with these hedgehogs on them for some sort of AI system advertisement. And I'm thinking like Blade Runner called this in a very, you know, kind of semi dystopic way. Like, look at, it's just everywhere and it's all over the place. And I'm like, it still is. It just has hedgehogs on it. So it's probably not going to be anything that's going to just, it's not, it's probably not, we destroy humanity. Like we do a great job doing that. Oh yeah. We're on track. I think the technology itself is something that challenges the way that we exist and will um provide us with with ways to to have conversation around that i don't think it itself will be the cause of any sort of insane thing i i i'm actually not like i'm not negative about it i i think people are just interested in altering their perception and like i mean you see it when people watch folks on Twitch. I think you see it with deprivation tanks. Have you tried those? Yes. Really awesome. They are amazing. I mean, to me, that's what's so great about it. People are like, oh, when you go into VR and you do a billion things. I'm like, no, you don't do anything. I mean, sometimes people just want to hang out. Oh, for sure. And just like chill for a second. And that's the thing I think that's very valuable for VR right now, at least, is the idea that you can focus. Yeah. And it does have that meditative quality that's really great. I also think, you know, the potential for having it at hospitals, having it at places where people are there sitting anyway, and it's awful. Like the idea that you can have someone in a vr experience and not feel so bad is is a great it's a great idea my dad i gave my dad an oculus go recently he loves it my mom's been taking photos of him using it he fell asleep in one which was really pretty entertaining and i mean to me i'm like that's how i know it's going to be fine because i mean it's just it literally is it's it's just it looks he's fine like it's just him being like yeah I was watching this thing and I fell asleep I don't know what he was watching I didn't ask just in case it was my project um but I think that there's something really there's something really sweet about that where it's like it's it's just another thing for us to experience the world yeah just falling asleep in front of your tv yeah i don't think a book or whatever yeah i don't like precisely like i do think that there's um for example i actually realized i needed glasses when i was starting to make vr because i couldn't rectify the i couldn't the stereo uh you're getting nauseous no no stereo disparity so i i couldn't actually it took me a while for me to see my left and right eye for close-up like text wouldn't match. So they'd still seem like they weren't working. And I sent it to an engineer and I said, you know, is my text right? Because it doesn't seem to look right. And he looked at, apparently looked at it and said oh you know he's like well you know the font's kind of weird and i was like what do you mean the font doesn't work or not and he's like oh yeah no it looks great he's like are you sure your eyes are okay and i went to an eye doctor and sure enough i had like a i had a stigma thing so now i'm funny yeah it's weird so i mean even that kind of like i feel like there's some interesting ways of how, there's all sorts of things that will come to the surface from once people start to, like, actually adopt and experience this stuff more. I do think from a VR standpoint, like right now people are sitting there with their VR headsets doing this kind of thing, just like watching. But, you know, all the headsets are going towards volumetric, like positional, wireless. So I imagine there being a much more interactive, much more engaging, like you're not going to sit there. You're going to actually move around. Have you been to that? I think it's in like Utah or Las Vegas. It's like some laser tag type thing where you have a VR headset on. Oh, it's the, it's, oh where you have a VR headset on oh uh it's the um it's oh my god why am I blanking on it yeah they have a Star Wars experience too um I'm gonna get reamed for this I don't remember the name of this company but it's uh yeah they basically do like kind of uh location-based entertainment they have the Ghostbusters thing also that was here in the city okay they um, they do. I really feel bad about this. I want to say Valve, but that's not true at all. It's like all the game talk. I feel like they actually, yeah, I think that stuff's really cool. I think it fits within. Again, it's like it's a different genre of VR for me where I feel like that's a very, what they've figured out, you have to, you have to dedicate like a space for that kind of thing, because what you're doing is you're letting people seemingly move through a whole experience. And I do believe, um, that taking that first step in a VR space for a lot of people is really, it's powerful. It's a powerful thing to feel. I feel I uh we were running some very very basic like if we took three six the 360 like world tour film that I made if we put it in a space and like kind of created like a even if it was like a rudimentary like box with like what the floor would look like and gave you space to move I mean I I did that and I almost like, it was very emotional for me because I remembered what it was like to be there on a level that seeing it couldn't do anymore. Like you would see it and be like, yeah, I was there. And then you move, you're like, no, but I was really there. And that's where it's like, holy shit. Like when we're able to actually capture our own personal moments like that, where we can relive them, that to me is like kind of... Terrible? Perhaps, yeah. I mean, I've said it before where it's like, okay, you know, part of the human experience is that we forget. Of course. So when you can't forget anymore, what happens? When you can't like where you're... Because I don't... I believe in the sanctity of experience in the human experience that's my own opinion on it I don't think that we should have all of the world's experiences accessible to people all the time I think that's a that's a terrible idea and I don't like the way that that's been marketed as such like I think that there are there are things that are poetic to forget and should be forgotten in some way. And I worry that my worry of this is that it goes in the opposite direction where everyone's like, remember everything. Right. Experience everything. Of course. Access to everything. Yeah. Once we index all of our memories, it'd be perfect. Totally. Completely discreet. There's like a romance to the feeling. For me, as long as there's hedgehogs on a plasma screen saying AI systems, and it's an app, like I, as long as those exist in that kind of way, I think there's hope. Yeah. Because it's like, that actually brings it to a place where it's like, this stuff is being adopted, but in a way that's like it's essentially harmless it's like once you start thinking what once you start getting to that like the bare bones of like why people are trying to do this like what the end goal is for some of this stuff that stuff gets a little weird but like I think right now I we're in a really nice we're in a reasonably nice place with some of this well I think it's like VR AI ai whatever you are not vr ar so it's bringing people joy at this point so i don't think it's really seeded fear in ways that other technologies have i think you know you it's we were talking about this like it's it's only ai until it's cleaning your floors and then it's a roombaa. Yeah. And then it's like my friends. Exactly. You know, it's like we have so much like AI intelligence systems around us now. I speak to Google Home every day. I would, you know, I speak to Siri occasionally. Like it doesn't, it's fine. You know, it doesn't even, doesn't phase me at all to do that. But ask me five years ago if I would talk to a little speaker in my kitchen and ask it to set the timer for me for grilling, it would be like I wouldn't really understand what I was talking about. It would be like, that's weird. Let's go into the craft. So Virginia Pigato asks, how can a traditional storyteller adapt to VR? And actually, I don't know this about you either. Were you making films before? Yeah. So I was a filmmaker. So a quick background on my life was that I was a film. I studied film at NYU. And at the same time, I was running across the street to the Kron Institute of Mathematical Sciences. I went down to NYU as well. Oh, okay. So you know Courant. So I was there, and I got a minor in computer applications, not computer science, because I got to Pearl, and I hated it. So I was like, no way in hell am I going to spend my time doing this. It annoys me so much. The language has turned people off. I can't stand it. So I would go back and forth between these two schools. I didn't know about ITP. Never heard of it. Me neither. And if I had, I would have totally gone there. So I went to both schools, did that. I worked at Apple for a little bit. I worked at a place called Yuffie Factory as their lead editor for a bit. And then I ended up at Google. And Google was, it was always like that back and forth, like science, art, science, art, and then technology, film, I guess were the two. And then Google had a position open for a filmmaker or film. It was like film editor at first, but then turned into filmmaker when I got there. So I started working there uh with the creative lab which at the time was like 10 people the one in chelsea yeah exactly and now has become like a huge and very it's a very important part of google actually they they create magical things about the you know the brand and like they they they kind of tell google's story about their products and i I was part of that. How do we use films? How do we be artful about these films so it's not talking heads and engineers that look really nervous? So I ended up working with them for five years before I went to VR. And actually, the VR team, the people that were working on the camera, I think, found that it would be better if they just tried to look internally to see if someone could use the rig so they wouldn't have to rely on external stuff it'd be more cost effective to try to find me than you know so and i remember they had emailed me i actually kept the email because it was a huge turning point because i was actually feeling kind of bored to be honest like making film yeah because it was a bit like again it's that idea that i wanted to do more and I felt like I could do more. And then when the VR, I wasn't really interested in VR at all, to be honest. I just wasn't, I didn't think it was for me or I didn't really think about it at all. But then, you know, a bunch of my friends started working in it, like Aaron Koblin, Chris Milk started with Verse at the time, which is now within. Sashka Unseld went to Oculus and started a story studio. So there are all these people that I had known who were starting to get more involved with VR, but again, I wasn't thinking about it. And then sure enough, I got invited to see this rig and experience the footage. And there was one clip that it was a test footage, a clip that the engineers had filmed of just themselves hanging out in Seattle. And it was brilliant. Like it was wonderful. Cause I'm like, I'm making films about these engineers and it's really hard. You know, I feel like I was mostly successful in doing it, but it was hard to get engineers to be. Just relax. Yeah. Like normal. or just talk about what they what they love about this stuff because when they do they it totally makes sense but i think they're used to like well i have to talk like this and i'm not i don't you know so i had to like i know what you're talking about yeah no i don't imagine you would uh yeah um but then i i think seeing that i was like right this is actually um this is the truth of that. Uh, so to really quickly answer the question, uh, yeah. How did traditional storytellers adapt to VR? Right. Um, you abandon the telling as hard as that is. You think about what I do actually is I I I draw two x's and in brackets I write down what I want to what what the story that I want to tell okay and I use a whiteboard I love whiteboards I don't know if it's the google thing but I love whiteboards because it's like it's non-precious you can just like write and then erase it and it doesn't exist anymore so I I write down even if it's long winded and crazy, I'll write down what I believe the story is. And then I'll look at it and start to, uh, to hack away at it till I get to that truth statement. So I'll like, it'll be some, like if it's a tortoise and the hare, it's like the entirety of that narrative. And then it's end, you know, uh, result, you know? So I, I reduce, I kind of feel you're sort of sculpting at that point. You're sort of like, here's my, the story, the story I would tell is this big block of clay within that block of clay is the actual meaningful bit. Yeah. So, I mean, that's like the Michelangelo quote, right? It's like, I see it in the marble and then i like bring it out yeah it's like literally what you're saying okay well then i think that's aim aim for that and i and it's also thinking about you know um as a once you get to that truth then it's really about holding it's like your north star and it's about for me after that once you get to that you have to also think about um the flow of the experience thinking about the cadence how people come into spaces how they relate to other objects how they relate to other people thinking about the various elements that you want to bring into it um so it's layered thing is there like thinking about the tech as well like it's not film in the sense that, okay, you edit it in final cut or premiere, whatever you export it, you put it on FTP and you send it to somebody, right? It's like, um, the process is very much in flux. So a lot of the things you have to consider are who's my audience, where is this going to go? Uh, which headset, what kind of limitations are there for the headset? Are they creative limitations? Are they annoying limitations? And then you really have to understand like, you know, how those limitations play into the truth that you're trying to transfer over. And again, thinking how is that truth constantly represented in this experience? How do I make sure that regardless of where someone is engaged with either what I believe is front, back, wherever, like how is it, even at its worst, still able to transfer that over to somebody? So yeah, it's a lot of like really the preemptive stuff. It's like kind of figuring out, you know, what are, one of the things I call it is like what is, what is the, what is the superpower for the person in the experience? Like in a game. Oh man. Okay One of the things I call it is like what is the superpower for the person in the experience? Like in a game. Oh, man. Okay. You know what I mean? Like in a game you're like, okay, I can jump. I can like throw a fireball if I have one. I can go this way but not that way. So giving people the time to understand that first and foremost is also important. But understanding what those things are and how that evolves over time is part of the narrative too and could like i don't know if it's like the companion cube in portal where you're given an object that's meant to help you and does help you but then it's incinerated like three layers in because the computer like wants you to feel awful and you do and it works and so it's that kind of like when you're given this gift to do something incredible and then you know halfway through your it's taken away from you um i don't know what i don't want to spoil red dead redemption but like so sorry maybe it's pretty old at this point okay so there's no there's a second one coming up so it's okay um but you know you're playing this character john Marshallson, and you get to the end and you realize that you can farm, like you get your wife back and your kid back. And you, you know, you're, you've been trying to help the FBI as this outlaw for the entire game. You beat your kind of enemy, former colleague, and then, um, they let you go and you get your wife back and your kid back. You can farm. And then the FBI comes back in a rampage and kills you. And you can't win. There's no like, and you're just like, holy shit. Like, what happened? And then you die. That's it. And that's life. And that's life. And there's nothing you can do about it. And then for the last little bit, you play your son. Oh, okay. And you play the son. And then your son is now taking revenge on his father's death. And it turns out, in a way, the whole Red Dead Redemption is about the son. Redeeming. Not redeeming his father. Not the father redeeming whatever else. Which is always a little bit, you know i guess like getting back to at his gang for having abandoned him i don't know but the real redemption's with the sun and that's when you're like wow okay that's when you're like because you're suddenly like terrified you're like i did everything that i could and you did yeah and you still failed you still failed right because life that's sometimes life and that's how you set up a second game that's how you set up a second game uh all right let's go rapid fire through these questions um so can ulcer asks what uh what key but non-obvious thing is missing from vr to become mainstream uh people not just focusing on entertainment and games i I think that, uh, a lot of what I've been doing has, I mean, granted, one of the pieces I'm making is entertainment, but thinking about education, thinking about various other, uh, you know, professions that could use it, uh, infrastructure, uh, architecture, like, you know, the other project I'm working on, um, thinking about, I don't know where this stuff could actually be useful. Totally, yeah. And then doing those things artfully. And I think that we kind of just try to focus on doing this one thing and it forgets, like, but you know, we could just find, be inspired by other places where like, I've gotten, I've had people come up to me saying like, is VR important to us? And sometimes I'm like, I actually help them. I work through the stuff with them and I say, actually, no, it's not useful. It might be useful in the future, but I think right now it's, it would be weird if you did it. Yeah. Well, I think like this is a, you know, as technologies expand in popularity so quickly now, they just become hammers when people are looking for nails, like blockchain. It's like, Oh, we have a blockchain. So why, why, why do you have that? No, it's for sure. It's like, this was driven by AI. You're like, I don't think a, I don't think it was like, why would you do that? There's no reason. Yeah. It's like kind of, you know, I think that that's, it's more figuring out where I, where you can have where that stuff that technology myself included where we could have like the most impact um and still be creative and still explore and I think people who really do want this from other sectors are also really open-minded at least the people I've worked been working with um to explore those how it could be really interesting and and wonderful for people yeah yeah totally uh all right next question uh matt maccabay asks what are some of the most exciting or scariest parts of social vr and what is the storytelling potential of social vr also what what is social vr social vr is uh well it means a lot of different things that's another like kind of group thing well okay so it's social could mean like um it's a way for your friends or followers to, to basically it's about the idea of like sharing the experience with another person. That's ultimately what it means. So it could be like either you're represented by avatars in the space and there's multiple or it's multiple people be able to do the same experience at the same time. It could mean all those things at the same time too. Um, I did, uh, alt VR. I think that's what it's alt spaces, sorry, alt space VR. And, um, uh, for the first time, like I think a month ago, uh, I just was curious. I just hadn't been able to do it for a while. And so I did it using the Oculus Go. And I was changing my avatar, like, because you're a robot, and then you can be like three or four other things. And meanwhile, this couple comes along, and they start talking to me. And I am looking over at them as they're talking to me, and I'm still changing my avatar. And I kind of give them a look, and then I look away. And for me, because you're thinking, okay, it's a game, and it's not going to happen. But then you realize there are actual people behind that, and I just probably look like someone who just gave them the cold shoulder, like, oh, it's you. And just like, look. Because I was like, I don't even know how to talk. I'm still a freaking robot. Like I don't know how to do this. And I look in the distance and there's another robot and that robot's looking at a fire and it's hearting the fire because you can basically throw like emoticons at things. So it's like heart, heart, heart, heart. And like someone's throwing a stick. And all I could think of was this is beautiful. This is a beautiful thing. Because everyone's just like, I'm just just gonna try out a bunch of stuff of course but this is probably where chat rooms were for like aol back in the day where you're like this is great we're all like one big happy family learning from each other but then there's also like then the creeper comes through and destroys everything for everyone so i think that the fear is that people there are creepers out there there are there you, there's been a lot of talk about, um, uh, you know, women being mistreated, uh, in that space as well. Um, I think the same patterns of what we've experienced before in digital space is probably going to be the same problems we would potentially deal with now. Um, and again, it's like, it's more affecting because it's like, it's, it's trying to emulate real life to some extent. So these experiences are a bit more uh they stick it's kind of visceral yeah yeah so we have to be very careful about that sort of thing i mean it's one of the reasons why i think games with guns are i mean it's hard because i think that vr experiences should not be following in the same footsteps of games in that regard, because holding a gun to someone's head is very different than holding a controller so that that character can hold, can hold a gun to someone's head. It's like once you actually put a gun in the hands of a kid in the, in a space, it's starts to get like, there's heavy responsibility there. And I think that's where we do we need to be very careful and very responsive and how we create these things man well let's end on a happy note yeah so tony tony cassara asks probably the most pertinent question uh what kind of dog do you have this is from your twitter bio i think right you have a dog yeah i have a german shepherd mix i adopted him when he was five months his name is fisher right on uh he's great i actually he hates vr you put it on him no i when i'm in vr he gets very upset he's just like where'd you go like he's kind of like but what about me and um i think for him's like, he's sort of used to it, but he does this whole, like how to heels, like lay down in the middle of the floor near where I'm doing it and kind of huff like I'm here. Um, but yeah, he's, he's cool. I, um, one of my favorite talking about memories and so on like that, like I actually the benefit of having uh been able to work with the jump rig so early on was that i was able to take a lot of the prototypes and i took one home oh cool yeah uh and i filmed my family and my my house kind of where where later part of my life where i grew up and um or actually where parents moved after various other stints other places and there's a a shot of me playing with with my dog and like just us like running around and you know right now it's like yeah whatever that's silly that's that's dumb but i imagine myself you know years from now you know looking back and being very happy yeah seeing that and i it's happened to me too that you know i've had you know one of my producers passed away actually the person who worked on world tour with me passed away like a few years ago and one of the things that i had to grapple with uh was like do i give his parents this vr footage is that okay and his you know we figured out a way to do that where there he had a friend of his actually was working at jaunt and so his jaunt friend was also there kind of making sure they saw it. But it's that question too, where it's like, it's so wonderful to have these experiences, like to be able to remember some of the things that matter to us a lot. And I think, you know, even though it's, you know, what I'm trying to do is trying to combine these three different technologies or more, it's also about what's the conversation, all this stuff we'll have with reality and how we live our lives. So I think, um, I'm really excited to kind of keep exploring that stuff too. Me too. Yeah. Well, thanks for making time. Yeah. Thanks for having me on this podcast. And thanks for, thanks for the questions too. It was really good. Yeah. The dog one too. One of the best, one of the best questions. you