 All right, so today we have Karn Soroya, the CEO of Cover, which was in the winter 2016 batch of YC. So Karn, what does Cover do? First of all, thanks for hosting me. I appreciate it. So you can think of Cover as a multi-line national property insurance entity. Our customers download our apps. We ask a couple simple and during questions, and they take pictures and videos of things they want to insure. So this could be cars, they could walk us around their homes, pets, jewelry, electronics. We basically make a market for just about anything you can take a picture of. And it's processed with computer vision, not humans, correct? On the home side, it's computer. So we use a TensorFlow-based camera to identify, catalog your property so that when you need to make a claim, there isn't much of a fuss that's put up by an adjuster. Okay. And now is it assessing more than what the object is, or is it just like, this is a bicycle? No, no, it's actually, I mean, the value of us being a visual app is twofold. One, we're acting as a sophisticated frontline underwriter. We're proving that the property existed in a given time, place, and condition. And that helps materially improve our loss runs. And then for the customer, what it means is that there can't be very much pushback in the instance of a claim. You have proof that your property existed. An adjuster can't come back and say that, hey, that television that you're trying to claim is actually something that's like a inferior model or something. is actually something that's an inferior model or something. Oh, cool. Gotcha. And so are your models constantly adjusting per person? So should I be photographing everything I buy? So again, it's just a tool for us. It's not necessarily the central tenet of what we do. A big part of it is to simplify the onboarding of getting insurance. I'm making it a bit more natural on native mobile. Okay. And then this is kind of an interesting divergence for you because before you had a style startup, before that you were in consulting. Right. So maybe you should explain how you ended up here because I think it's interesting. Yeah, sure. So I was a management consultant in a past life. So I was at Oliver Wyman specifically in their financial services practice. And I got a CFA at some point. I went to MIT, studied finance. So I was in their finance and risk practice, a little bit of insurance work. It was great. It helped me pick up a little bit of polish the two years that I was there, certainly can model things and, you know, build PowerPoint slide decks. And that, you know, that was certainly to my benefit. I, you know, I'm appreciative of the experience that I had there. But at the end of the day, you know, I kind of wasn't getting what I wanted out of the experience that the risk, the risk adjusted returns to being in professional services like managing consulting or banking or private equity are great. But because they're great, I view them as temporary. And so I'm looking at it and I'm like, in the long run, eventually there's reversion to the mean. And I kind of want to make the jump to something where I'm building things, I'm taking risks. And that just gelled better with my personality so did you find that you were struggling to care while you were consulting or you just didn't feel there was sufficient upside well i was learning to code while i was consulting okay and so and so i was like well i'd rather be a maker of things than an advisor. So it's fine. One of the questions that kept percolating in my head was, they're paid millions of dollars to advise banks to do things and to improve operational processes. I kind of wondered why the partners that I worked with just didn't build a bank. And I posed that question to a couple of the partners. And the answer was, hey, man, we make a lot of money doing this. We're not going to end up taking these risks. And quite frankly, the scope of building a bank is way, way larger than the thing that we focus on, whether it's in an insurance context, solvency related, in the banking context, stress testing related, or operational, or something to that effect. I was like, well, I'd be the guy that wants to build a bank. I made a jump, and it was kind of ad hoc. The very first thing that I built with Anand, who's our CTO, was actually a body scanner. We used three Kinect sensors, because it's like a depth sensor webcam, three points of perspective to get a body form. And we thought that we could use math to shave away clothes and use that body form to inform sizing decisions on the internet. So super creepy thing. And I think if we had made a couple of logical checks before we had ventured off to do this thing, like why aren't there body scanners in every mall in America? We probably would have realized that if this was something that consumers would adopt, it would be there to be like a war for mall space across America. And now was this something that was intended to be a startup, or did you just think it was a cool side project? No, it was intended to be a startup. So you had left at that point. Yeah, we had left. We were pitching The Gap and a fair number of large retailers and brands. So we didn't get traction on that. The technology was particularly cool. And so we stepped back and thought about, hey, what are we actually trying to do here? We're effectively trying to predict the sizing and stylistic preferences of our customers. Over the course of a weekend, we built a super simple app where we scraped a whole bunch of lifestyle blogger and fashion blogger content and threw up outfits and allowed people to scroll and double tap on individual parts of an outfit. Right. So all we wanted to see that was that, you know, somebody would indicate a preference for like a blouse or like a handbag or like a hat or a pair of shoes. Lo and behold, like the activity was insane. Right. And so we were picking up users. So we, so, so we. So we eventually stepped back, we pulled it back, and then we built out something that would register the unique structural elements of individual items that people would interact with. So if you double-tapped on a handbag, we know the price point, the colors, the unique structural elements. With computer vision, again? Yeah, so actually it was even more rudimentary than that. We were just tagging everything by hand. It was super manual. And so that was working, and eventually we started to get to the point where we were predicting what people would want to see next. And so with Stylekick, actually, we applied to YC four or five times. We interviewed three times, actually. Man. And by the last time that we interviewed, we had 400,000 active users. And the business was based, was it sort of like supply? So it was like affiliate purchasing? Yeah, it was a marketplace. So eventually what we had were designers, influencers uploading looks. And we were earning affiliate income doing that. And at that point, so you had 400,000 active users. How much money were you guys making out of those? Not nearly enough, just barely to cover our hosting costs. And the reason for that is a lot of the stuff that was being sold was super high end. So back then on a four inch screen or smaller, high-end. Back then on a four-inch screen or smaller, selling a pair of $300 jeans wasn't an impulse price purchase. We ended up acting much more like lead gen to a desktop purchasing experience. In retrospect, what we probably would have done and stepped back and looked at was actually working within the marketplace native mobile e-commerce ecosystem. The things that were working like Wish, right? So impulse price purchases, $5 to $20, where you didn't need to think twice about what you were buying. It was also working. We relied heavily on influencer marketing to grow to eventually a million active. This was 2014? So it was like 2013. If we step back, we would have recognized that there were a lot of these individual brands that were starting to stand up on top of Instagram. We probably could have gone the route of actually building out a fashion brand or selling products of our own accord. Glossier is a great example of that. Those are the types that worked. Either you went vertical or you went impulse price purchase. Because something in the middle was never going to happen. Did you consider a full desktop interface where people could save and then purchase? We did. I think Net-A-Porter and Farfetch and a bunch of these guys went that route. I think we just ran out of steam. In and around the time we were running out of steam, we got to know the folks at Shopify particularly well. Craig Miller, who's the current CPO, Satish, who's the VP, and a GM there. We had a long-standing relationship and ultimately we decided to join Shopify and run a mobile product team. We were there for a little under a year. We were building experimental marketplace apps for them. But we still had the itch. We knew that we could build really beautiful mobile products. Stylekick itself was featured in just about every market on yeah you know on the app store on the front page repeatedly we were like number one for style in like france it was crazy um you know we were driven by millions of people through the app so you know how to drive distribution via native mobile uh and so we started thinking about you know what is the next thing that we want to do we knew we wanted we wanted to be mobile because that was one of core strengths. We knew we could drive customers. We wanted to make sure at this point that the basic economic model worked. We built things on weekends. We'd drive to Northern Ontario and Muskoka and just have a couple of beers and think about what we wanted to build. We tried things in healthcare. We considered entertainment again because Natalie worked for Russell Simmons and it's kind of the impetus of us moving forward with Stylekick. There were a couple of things we tried. And eventually we settled on insurance. And the reason was we had been working with insurance brokers in the past to help us pick up policies for Stylekick and for ourselves. But this is not necessarily obvious, right? Because you were in Toronto and now covers in the US with a more competitive market, right? Correct, yeah. So, I mean, what convinced you that this could work? Yeah, so I think what we wanted to prove was that the pipe was big enough to drive a significantly sized business, right? I mean, at the end of the day, it was the back of the envelope math that showed us this could work. A single auto policy that we sell in California, the average premium is something like $1,600. Just as a distributor of insurance, never mind underwriting or moving down the margin stack, we earn anywhere between $200 and $300 of that policy in perpetuity. And so if you think about what churn looks like in insurance, a very, very good broker is churning 10% per year. A good broker is churning 15%. So the LTV on a single auto insurance policy is thousands of dollars, which is why you see Geico and State Farm spend billions of dollars a year trying to acquire these customers. Yeah, it's because they're just massive. But you also in the beginning knew that you couldn't afford to underwrite this stuff, correct? Yeah, correct. So we were thinking about what's the capital light way of entering this business. And so the very first version of Cover was super simple. It was, we didn't have any licenses because we weren't selling any insurance. We didn't know anything really about insurance distribution. It was just a handful of views leading to a camera view with a preamble that said, take a picture of something you want to insure. That's it. And we launched it and we used the methods that we used to grow Stylekick to grow Cover. We ended up being the number one ranked insurance app in Canada the second day. style kick to grow cover, we ended up being the number one ranked insurance app in Canada the second day. And during YC, two weeks into launch, we were featured under the best new apps in the United States. Again, we didn't have any insurance licenses. We didn't know anything about insurance. All we would see was that every 60 seconds we were getting an insurance request. Right. So how did those conversations with investors go? Because I think you could, as just a distributor, I think a common pushback would be like, isn't this just running to zero margin? I think any pure lead gen business is just relying on a marketing arbitrage to continue to exist. There are lots of examples of that in insurance. I don't think that you can build a durable business as just a lead gen service for a couple of reasons. One, those arbitrage opportunities eventually dissipate. The second is you're not building any brand like equity or value and you're certainly not, you know, doing your customers a service by vacuuming up their contact information and selling it on 10 times to juice average revenue per user. Especially as a startup, a venture-backed startup. Yeah, and so we were like, well, we knew exactly what we needed to do. We were like, okay, well, we need to start owning the actual customer service, the selling experience, and eventually more. And so during YC, we were like, okay, well, we're committed to getting licensed across the country. We're committed to getting as many insurance markets as we can on the cover platform so that when a customer comes in the door, irrespective of what it is they're looking to cover, we're a competitive place. We stood up a national insurance brokerage in under 12 months. We were in 49 states with 30 carriers in under 12 months, which is, I think, enough to show that we could de-risk ourselves from an execution perspective, because that's a non-trivial thing to do. Right? MARK MANDELBAUM- Sure. And so how much did you have to raise to accomplish that? So that was YC. So if you're in winter 2016, so by winter 2017, you were in that position. MARK MANDELBAUM- Yeah. Right? We raised $3.2 million. Some of it before demo day, a lot of it after demo day. We actually had most of our seed rounds still when we raised our A. A big part of it was we knew there was going to be a ramp. We didn't make our first hire for probably the first year and a half. We knew that it would take a little bit of time to get everything tooled before we could start to scale. But yeah, we raised our A as soon as we were in a position to be able to be selling insurance business. Okay. And so when you raised your A, did you feel that you had product market fit? I mean, if you take a look at our reviews. Reviews or reviews? Reviews. I think we do. I mean, we do everything we say we're going to do. A customer comes in the door, we make the underwriting application process super simple. We do not spam our customers with phone calls or emails. Every single one of our customers gets a dedicated text line where they can text us back and forth to ask questions. It's a truly, I think, millennial first experience, which is a cliche thing to say, but it's the thing that we do. So yeah, we do what we say, and we've been doing well because of it. And so when it comes to growth, you guys just raised a B in 2018. Correct. It's still, compared to Geico, nothing. A tiny amount of cash. There are other insurtechs that have raised hundreds of millions of dollars now, right? Still a drop in the bucket in the insurance market. There are $500 billion in insurance premiums that are written just in the property market in the United States every year. That's a lot of concern to us because one, we don't take balance sheet risk yet. Eventually we may be because we can be pretty opportunistic about the types of requests that are coming in and whether we want to stand up products for those. In practical terms, for people on insurance, what does that mean? That means that if we see a lot of customers who are coming in for a specific thing, like maybe it's home or maybe it's auto in a given geography and we're writing it profitably, we can actually just step in and underwrite the business ourselves. Meaning that we take the risk, or we price the risk, take part of the risk, and sell the rest of it on. And if we take any risk at all, we need to hold the capital in reserve to be able to take that risk. Right now, we do not. Which is why we can be fairly capital light. And so focus mostly on the distribution aspect of the business and acting as sophisticated frontline underwriters. So we're being actually pretty prudent about the types of risks that we do send to our carrier partners. Okay. Yeah. I mean, you can think of insurance as three discrete businesses, right? Like distribution, which is a business in and of itself, underwriting, claims, servicing, and regulatory overhead. Folks who are attacking every aspect of this at once are probably not going to get any of them right and burn a lot of money right out the gate. And those are the folks that have tended to raise hundreds of millions of dollars to get to that point. I think our goal right now is to make sure that we're continuously iterating on the best possible front-end experience, making sure that we're proving out that the product itself is a good way, a mechanism to filter out bad risks, and then move into underwriting and maybe the rest of the stack. How does your lead gen work now? We acquire exclusively through our apps, so the App Store, Google Play. Really? So just highly rated, so it's all search? Yeah, so we were the beneficiaries of pretty decent ASO very early on. We run a lot of paid, but we take a portfolio approach to growth. We would acquire via all the channels you expect, Facebook, Instagram, Reddit, what have you. We're good at ASO. We're starting to build up Cover.com. That'll probably be a fair material entity for us. We're good at ASO. We're starting to build up Cover.com. That'll probably be a fair material entity for us. We build things that are what we consider to be pre-insurance. These are tools that we think are useful to our customers irrespective of whether they buy insurance from us right away or not. A good example of that is in the Cover.com price drop alerts. You don't have to buy insurance from us. What we can do is just programmatically remarket you every time we see a violation fall off of your record or a claim fall off of your record or you're coming up for renewal. That's a service you don't need to pay for, but it's pretty valuable because you don't have to think about it. Another example is for certain markets, we're giving away access to a defensive driving school. So if you go to driving.cover.com, I'll give you a very stylish example. In Texas, if you go to a defensive driving school, you can get a violation knocked off of your record or get access to an insurance discount. So it can be material, it can be like 10% of the overall premium. So we're talking about hundreds of dollars. Usually there are entities that charge anywhere from like $25 to $150 to go through that course. It takes like a couple hours. We're a technology company. We just build it and give it away for free. And that can be funneled directly into our products. So in Texas, there were like 480,000 people over the course of the last 18 months that went through a defensive driving school. Wow. Just in Texas, right? And so it's like, if you think about like, hey, where can I be? Where are my customers? And how can I build product to facilitate a transition of those customers from those sources to the actual apps? You can build fairly durable distribution. And were you thinking about these kinds of programs when you were at NYC, or is this just by talking to your customers, figuring it out all the way? I think it was observing the types of things that folks were asking, like, do you have a defensive driving discount? They will literally ask us, do you have a military discount? Do you have this? Do you have that defensive driving discount? They will literally ask us, do you have a military discount? Do you have this? Do you have that? And we're like, well, maybe we haven't considered this and we should go build something to support this. The other thing I do is I read a lot of insurance rate filings. And so it's a weird thing to do. But to get a fuller appreciation of the way that, one, the filings are structured, but also discounts that are, generally speaking, available to our customers. Gotcha. And how we can build product to make it easier to access those discounts. Right. And so, yeah, when someone might be shopping around, they're going to start comparing these things. And this fringe benefit might matter a lot to them. Yeah. I mean, Geico, for example, has this weird affiliate discount where if you own a share of Berkshire Class B stock, you get an 8% discount on Geico, right? Really? Which is crazy. Well, there you go. Now you know. Man, I should take advantage of that. Okay. Just pop up in Robinhood. Yeah. So you mentioned Cover.com, and I forgot to put this in my notes, but you guys just bought this domain fairly recently, right? Yeah. Yeah, so we've never talked about this on the podcast, but you spent a lot of money on it. Yeah, and I got all that crap for it, too, on Hacker News. Really? Yeah, yeah. I mean, look, the crux of it is, what's the ROI on buying something like that? Yeah. Look, buying a very expensive domain is not going to make or break our business. Because we bought Cover.com does not mean we're going to be successful. It also doesn't mean that we're going to fail. We would fail if we did something fundamentally wrong or continue to build on something that didn't have product market fit. We know we have product market fit. People buy our products. People spend thousands of dollars on those. From my perspective, it was, right now we're super surgical about how we acquire, right? Like we have to be because we're capital constrained. At some point or another, we know that like in equilibrium, we are competing on general awareness, right? We're in the trust business and any minor change, right, in conversion, we're in the trust business and any minor change right uh in conversion given super high ltvs uh is going to make a huge impact right if you have a two thousand dollar ltv and conversion moves up a couple bips yeah or up or down a couple bips when you have tens of thousands of people coming in through every single day the domain pays for itself right very very quickly yeah um and so you know outside of that if we're competing on general awareness, yeah, we care about discoverability, right? That matters. We care that we're discoverable, you know, and we own like one of the more common words in the English language. And so, in other words, you would say, if you have the cash, do it. I think it's on a case-by-case basis. I think if it makes sense for your business, and you have to have a very good sense of what the underlying economic model is. We can do the sensitivity analysis, minor changes in conversion and how that eventually affects the bottom line for us. And for us, if we're writing a million policies a year, it actually takes a couple thousand policies, less than a couple thousand policies to pay for this. Because it was 900, thousand policies, like less than a couple thousand policies to pay for this. Because it was $900 roughly? So we paid $750 for it and then there were broker fees. Do you have any pro tips? The guy that we worked with, if you're actually considering buying a domain, he was great. He's a professional. He was introduced to us by Arjun at the Set Tribe. He's on. He's a professional who was introduced to us by Arjun Sethi, Seth Tribe, on our board, our lead investor. But a lot of the folks in this space are super shady. You should be pretty careful. I would recommend using a broker, irrespective of the general shadiness. The initial bids that we were getting were in the $1.5 million to $2 million range. the initial bids that we were getting were in the $1.5 million to $2 million range. And I can guarantee you that if we had tried to buy it after our B or our C, we'd be looking at $5, $6 million. So did they know it was you? No, they didn't. We had a broker who proxy through another broker. Because I've heard about people who own many of these big TLDs, they will only work with the customer. Yeah. Yeah, because I've heard about people who own many of these big TLDs. They will only work with the customer. Yeah, I mean, I think we were lucky enough to have network access. It's not necessarily afforded to everybody, but it saved us a lot of money. Yeah, that's great. So to go off on a tangent a little bit, you are engaged to one of your co-founders. Yeah. I got engaged to Natalie, who heads up all the product at Cover, when we were at Shopify. We were thinking that we would be there for a while and this would be a little bit more stable than the ups and downs of working for a wedding. Given how Shopify stock is done yeah um yeah so so we uh we were at shopify we're like okay this is gonna happen like we'll plan this out we have some time now yeah um then we applied to yc right and so we were like oh for the fifth time, we've been rejected so many times. Like what's, what's another time? Um, and so we applied and like, you know, we got in, right. Uh, and it was like a basic prototype. We didn't have any users really. Um, uh, which is, I guess the way the world goes. Uh, and then like two weeks later we flew from Toronto to California. Right. Uh, and use Zeus to the last minute to get uh some housing uh yeah and since then it's been a roller coaster right because like we've you know we did yc raised our seed started scaling a team building up a business and it's been um a pretty aggressive run uh we're probably gonna get married this summer okay congrats yeah very exciting and so how do you how do you manage that relationship you know because they're obviously obviously relationship tension, co-founder tension, and then you have to deal with employees at the same time. Yeah, I think co-mingling professional and personal risk, especially if you're starting a startup, it's not necessarily a recipe for success, to be quite frank. I think the beneficiaries of having worked on two businesses together now, being acquired into Shopify and working on the same product team. And there's a clear division of the scope of responsibility and role. She's an exceptional designer. She's an exceptional product person. She got Stylekick and Cover featured on the front page of the US App Store simultaneously, which I think very few people like Havet can have claim to. I trust her completely to take care of that function. I work on the rest of the business. I work on the insurance aspects of the business. I'm thinking about what do we need to do to continue to deliver an exceptional product experience. What products should we be standing up? Who should we be working with? They're very different roles. That helps a lot. It's been a net benefit. The cohesiveness of our co-founder team is pretty atypical. Anand, I went to high school with uh natalie i'm i'm uh engaged to uh ben was our first hire into uh into style kick and so we've been working with him for six years right that helps a lot yeah um and it it's like one the strength of that core team because they're're all awesome at what they do. It's helped us hire very well. And when it comes down to the actual tactics that you use to make sure the relationship, the conflicts will obviously happen, but it doesn't implode. What are the tactics that you use? Yeah, I mean, eventually you feel out with your partner what you need to do to de-escalate. You will know exactly what buttons you can push and you shouldn't be pushing. And you step back and you realize that you're on the same team. And that helps, certainly. Do you have to put any rules in place in terms of living together, working together? I don't think there are no hard and fast rules. Actually, our co-founders still live together. Oh, wow. So, our co-founders still live together. So, I mean, we're as tight as you can get, I think. So now that you guys have raised your Series B and are quite large, you have two offices. So you have the Toronto and you have your San Francisco office. As the CEO, how do you manage that and how do you make sure everyone's on the same page? Yeah, so Anand is full-time in Toronto. Natalie flies between the two offices. Most of the products, it's in Toronto. We have some senior engineering in San Francisco. Sales lives in San Francisco. Insurance operations lives in San Francisco. So the folks who are running their respective functions are where their teams are. And then I make an effort to be wherever we can be. And we run these off-sites. We're heading to Vegas next week. The entirety of the team will be together. Yeah, so again, division of labor. We've invested in Zoom rooms and very high quality AV equipment to make sure that at least communication is a solved problem. And in terms of culture, how do you keep people on the same page? Yeah, so it's interesting. I think the individual cultures are pretty different. One is very product-oriented. And we have a sales office in San Francisco that's super rambunctious. I actually don't have a problem with that as of this point. I think what my job primarily is is to make sure that we're all aligned in what the ultimate goals are for our organization. We're trying to build out a fair and sustainable insurance entity at the end of the day. We know what we need to do. We need to make getting insurance easier. We need to make it fairly priced for individuals for whom it should be fairly priced. We need to be around when claims are being made and help facilitate those claims so that our customers have positive experiences around that because that's the ultimate function of an insurance company. And yeah, effectively act in that advisory capacity and scale that across just about any line of business okay uh and insurance that we can that makes sense and so as an international founder we we have a million questions coming in from twitter all the time for it's like oh how do you deal with this as a international founder applying to yc you're doing yc or or post yc is actually i think the most common place of anxiety where people are like, I think I can figure this out in a three-month term. Longer term, what is your advice to those people? How do they make it work? Yeah, so look, we were all in San Francisco and decided to open a Toronto office. Because we know the market, we knew where to look. We have a pretty good site and it's a super high quality team. That decision we made concertedly because we had an edge in doing that. If you're talking specifically about, hey, if I'm an international founder, should I stay in the Bay Area or should I be somewhere else? My objective opinion on that is, this is the beating heart. This is the beating heart of everything technology. And you should have a presence here. Absolutely. If you can get your visa issues resolved. Yeah. I mean, even we had issues, like Anand was stopped at the border like three times, turned around. We had to get him an O-1, which is kind of ridiculous. But that stuff happens. You just have to work through it. Yeah. It happens to everyone. And it's just like, you make it through. But obviously, neither of us are lawyers. So yeah, consult. So the new batch is starting. You guys haven't been out for that long, winter 2016. So it's in recent memory still. What advice would you give to the people just entering the batch? Yeah, so actually, I ran a startup school batch. So there are a couple of the companies that were in my batch are now, uh, in YC. Um, and, and certainly like, uh, I've been doing this for a little while, like, which is like pre-coaching folks who are running in YC. One of the folks, the first folks I did it for was Austin at Lambda school. Okay, cool. And I ended up to be one of the first investors in Lambda School too. Look, I think the core advice that I give is actually not that different from what YC partners give. It's like, hey, pick a KPI, make sure you're growing that KPI. Everyone implicitly knows that a couple inches deep into your startup, everything is held together by duct tape and glue. The bet that folks are making on you is that eventually you're going to figure it out. So go into it with that in mind. Make sure you hit your KPI and you talk about it, because it's important to actually talk about your successes. And then outside of that, the typical advice is don't hire anybody because you shouldn't be hiring anybody. Don't go to conferences or parties that are not directly related to the KPI. So if you're going to build revenue doing it, fine. But otherwise, don't be doing it. And otherwise, don't get distracted. This is like a three-month sprint for you to truly accelerate what you're doing. YC is like forcing a function. If you don't have product market fit, it's going to help you determine that you don't have product market fit pretty quickly. And if you do have product market fit, it's going to be like, okay, fine. It's an accelerant. And what about post-YC? I know there are many companies who kind of go through a lull and they need to decompress for a week or something. But how did you guys find your rhythm again? We're the beneficiaries of having done this a second time. So the ups and downs are not as aggressive. The highs are not as high, the lows are not as low. And so we just kept our heads down. All the lessons we learned from the first time around were compost. And so we have a pretty good cadence of just making sure we're hitting our goals and communicating that to investors, which is why we raised an A pretty quickly. But yeah, you keep doing what you were doing during YC. You should be okay. Cool, man. Well, this has been great. Thank you so much. Yeah, thanks for having me. I appreciate it.