 All right, Marques Brownlee, how's it going? Good, how are you? Doing well. Good. So, I'm curious, I've followed your channel for a while, but I definitely did not follow it in the beginning when you were reviewing software on your laptop. You've been doing it for a long time. What would you attribute your success to on YouTube? Well, I do tech videos, i think that the obvious answer there is tech has been interesting and important for so long that just being in a tech space generally for that long has has done a lot for it yeah um the channel itself i mean there's plenty of other successful tech channels but it has its own unique style it has a consistent voice it's been me for 10 years yeah um so i guess just if you combine all those factors consistency plus tech staying interesting that's that's mainly it was there any particular inflection point where it really took off no i get asked that a lot about like you know can i point to a certain video or a date or month or something like what happened to go from like nothing to where it is now but i've from to this day i look back and it's mainly just like a you can look at charts even that's just a sort of an upward slope from zero videos to a thousand videos uh you know it's obviously when you get to certain points like the reputability is that a word the reputability of the channel becomes more uh significant so you're more likely to subscribe to a tech guy with a million subscribers talking about something you should buy than a guy with 100 so that's helped but i feel like a consistency again is major really because yeah i mean i i follow a couple subreddits on like weird youtube channels and there are people that have a thousand videos reviewing elevators oh yeah simple boring shit well i mean there's there's always going to be like niche stuff which people will get really into but i think like when when it comes to something as personal as a tech product yeah you kind of want some sort of history to go on or uh sort of a reputation to look back on when it's like a thousand phones are a thousand dollars now so uh yeah i think that's that's helped being able to have a history of stuff hmm and because in the beginning you were just doing software right right for the most part free software yeah and then did you start getting phones sent to you in like the early days of influencer culture i remember early days pretty well it was i i'd started with all this laptop stuff so the first uh stuff that got sent to me was laptop accessories okay a mouse a keyboard that kind of stuff um some some paid software i would get like a key for 30 off a 50 piece of software and i could have that access that was awesome okay um phone stuff didn't happen till much later i remember the first event i ever went to was a samsung event in new york city where i met a youtuber for the first time okay that was probably like six years in so it took a while you were in it for a while yeah you know uh i grew up getting like pirated keys off limewire and all that kind of stuff. Did you ever dip into that and think like, man, maybe I should review Final Cut Pro on my channel? Oh, man. At one point, I definitely did a whole Hackintosh thing. Oh, you did? Which was definitely not, you know, kosher, I guess. But, you know hackintosh world is a whole world so i was i was curious about it and i i got into it um i don't i was never really into like you know downloading pirated music or any of that stuff but i could imagine that was its own world for a long time yeah yeah because i i was curious because as a kid you have no money when you're starting out your channel yeah and i wonder if if you grew up with that hacker ethos. Like, have you done a teardown video before or anything like that? Not really. I mean, I used to be much more into building PCs and taking them apart and upgrading them. I had a Mac, one of those, the Tower Desktop Mac Pro. The G5? Yeah, I did. Like, I was replacing the GPU and upgrading the RAM and all that, and I was replacing the GPU and upgrading the RAM and all that. And I had an XPS tower that I had the same thing too. But I guess I never was really fully into the building process as much as I was the final result of how well that finished product would work for you. Okay. But when I watch your videos now, you're pretty into the stats of it all like all those like hard metrics with the products right yeah yeah so it attracts you in some way yes i mean i think if you just look at if you take a huge step back and just look at what the videos are about period especially with the reviews it's like how good is this product that this company made going to work for you and there's a whole bunch of different ways to measure that and i'm trying to measure that so there's so what are the what are those metrics like what's the i've heard you talk about it before in the context of like this is a feature that's gonna maybe like spark some interest and this is a feature that i'm going to use every day yeah like gimmick versus daily yeah yeah that's one way i mean i kind of you can pick up a phone and use a really cool feature for two seconds. You're like, whoa, that's amazing. But when you actually buy the phone, are you going to use that feature? I'm kind of trying to evaluate that. There's all sorts of benchmarks and things people do, like how fast is the storage? How much RAM does it have? How fast is this chip? And that stuff is useful, obviously, if you have more demanding needs for your phone. But obviously if you have more demanding needs for your phone but a lot of it is literally just evaluating like is this a gimmick or is this really going to be daily driver material one thing i was talking about on a recent podcast is how it's very hard for the market to to recognize how good a product's quality is like just that actual feel like when you sit when you touch an iphone for the first time yeah right and so like how do you go about quantifying that when you're making video i mean it's really sometimes i see my job as like a professional user okay like i i really just have to use it and you get the the briefing obviously and the breakdown of all the new features and what is new versus what's not new and you can compare it to things you've used before um but at the end of the day like you actually have to use it to figure out if it's actually useful yeah so yeah there's all kinds of use cases there's they'll tell me about a new feature and they'll tell me exactly there's some new y York for you. Yeah. How it like the ideal use case scenario, how it works well. This came up recently because I did a video with an LG phone that came out. Has this feature where you wave your hand over it and do these gestures to open up apps and things like that. It's called the G8. Okay. And like on the surface, like this is cool. This is like future type stuff but then you actually use it and you're like all right so i don't know what i have stuff on my hands maybe i'm cooking but i just want to like open the youtube app real quick and search for something like now what like i have to still type in what i want to search like there's there's uh there's limits to the usefulness of that so that for me fell in the gimmick bucket just because using it actually changed my mind but then what about the features where you thought it was great and it didn't catch on are there examples of that well there's there's lots of examples of things that are great to me that aren't a big deal to other people like i'm a i love high resolution really nice screens okay and you can hand you can hand me a phone with a 1440p amoled great display and you could hand me a phone with a 1080p lcd display and i'd look and i'd immediately want the better one yeah but to an average person a lot of times whatever like they both look fine to me is one one of them's bigger i like the bigger one so sometimes there will be things that i'll evaluate i'll be like you gotta get this because it's got a great screen and it won't matter to a lot of people. But at least then you can calibrate yourself to what I've in the past liked a lot. So in the past, if I keep saying like, I really like these phones because of their screens and you know from your past experience that screens aren't a big deal to you, then you can at least say, all right, I'll discount this point because screens aren't my thing. Okay. Yeah, because I've kind of wondered if we're going to reach a point of complete diminishing returns with smartphones, right? You're like, oh, man, you know, iPhone X or whatever. Like, this is awesome. iPhone 11, is it 100% better? Unlikely, right? So do you think we're going to reach peak smartphone? Peak smartphone. It's a common question. I don't. Okay. And the only reason I don't is because I've heard that question for the past like five years of smartphones. And then the next year I'm like, well, that's new. And I think it's mostly because the trends change. Like there was a thinness trend a couple of years ago where it was like, we got a nine millimeters thin and then 8.9 and then 8.1 and then 7.9. Holy crap. There's a six millimeter thin phone. Have we reached peak smartphone? And then it changed to like, okay, now we want these bezel-less phones. So thickness, whatever. It's, it's just going to be thin that's just the way it is but now uh can we get a 90 screen to body ratio can we get this notch smaller can we get 93 95 eventually we're gonna be like have we hit peak like we got the whole screen yeah and then the next trend is gonna happen i don't know what that next trend is but i feel like because of i've observed these cycles over the past couple years um it doesn't seem likely that it's just gonna we're gonna get this end product of like the perfect phone i mean maybe we will that'd be great yeah but yeah i don't i don't i mean i know a lot of people are holding on to you know iphone basically five form factor that's definitely true yeah phones are better and they last longer yeah than they ever did so in that sense we're closer to peak smartphone because your iphone if you buy an iphone 10s now that phone's probably going to be good for like four years like legitimately ios has gotten better um so it's true you can hang on to an older phone longer than you used to be able to yeah but uh that's also something tech companies got to think about when they make their next product yeah yeah so what do you make of these new trend like the folding things like new trends right now there's a lot of folding one is is one of those interesting ones because i i'm trying to imagine the future of like why folding phones matter um at this point like generation one folding phones are like all right proof of concept like you can technically fold it but there's a big ugly crease in the middle on these bezels are huge and you know it's it's not really uh it doesn't seem that useful yet okay but that challenge is to like okay go like eight nine years down the road where it's like oh yeah you can just you have a tablet and a phone and you just unfold your phone and becomes a tablet like in that world it was worth it like 2019 folding phones were worth it because we got to that point. Yeah. So if we get to that point someday, then I think it'd be worth it. But okay. So, so then I've noticed you filmed a bunch of Tesla videos, right? Based on, you know, the ratio of types of content on your channel, are you just betting electric vehicles is the next big trend? Partially? Yes. And partially, I just love the thing. Yeah, I mean, but that's like a cool signal, right? Like, I remember people wouldn't shut up about their iPhones when they got them. And the same thing is true for the Model S. Yes. And that's a comparison I've heard. Like, the Tesla is the iPhone of cars again. Like, it's kind of just that next wave. And electric does seem like it's the future. You see all these big companies like, yeah, we're going to go electric by 2028. I'm like, great. Someday. Um, yeah, no, I'm a huge fan of the Tesla and it's like, it's kind of like a perfect segue into me. I've always been into cars, but like I'm 25, like how into cars because it's a tech product. Yeah. It has all these tech features. It's basically a tech company. So it was sort of a natural segue into the car world. Yeah. Because I've just been curious, like on the performance side, how much it actually matters. Because if you look around, you know, obviously the Model S is nuts to drive, right? Yeah. But then, you know, the Priusus is have you driven a prius before yeah it's not the most exciting it works it gets you there yeah right and so yeah i've been kind of wondering where the ev market will end up going because the model 3 is also pretty quick yeah um yeah but you know yeah what's your impression of like the low-end uh ev market the thing about ev is you still get like that quick torque so even though the performance from like you know your 60 to 90 might not be like high-end gas car territory most of the acceleration and like merging and quick things you do on an ev even a low-end ev is still like zippy like you still feel like you're in that like zippy go-kart type of feel even in like i drove a model 3 when it first came out and so it was rear wheel drive i'm pretty sure the 0-60 is like five and a half seconds or something which is fine but like that car felt quick okay like i'd step on the pedal and i felt like zippy like i was in model s so uh even low-end dvs will have that feel and that's attractive to people um i think a lot of people overrate how much sound matters like in the high-end car market everyone cares how their car sounds but for you know 90 of people who are just like interior or the actual engine sound yeah the engine sound okay like when i hit the pedal i want to hear it working for me like that's a common like resistance to the evs so uh but yeah i think for like 90 of people or taxis or just commuter vans or just basic transportation like silence is great huh and in terms of uh features within the car they tend to be ahead yeah i think i mean maybe i'm just because i'm looking mostly at tesla but like the amount of things you know having a smartphone controlled app where you can summon the car to you like all these these remote start stop features in gas cars are great but when you look at the amount of i mean tesla's a tech company so you see all kinds of tech features in the car yeah yeah i guess i just kind of wonder like where because you spend so much time reviewing products both like smartphones and cars and stuff like you kind of get an impression of the bleeding edge but i'm wondering like where you're you're seeing it going like things that are just popping up where you're like oh that's that's actually a super cool feature that people aren't talking about or thinking about right now in the context of cars i mean honestly just going electric and the number one thing you think about is charging. Where do you charge it? Like how fast does it charge? How long does the battery last? Things like that. Those basic questions. The more like those big companies think about answering those questions, like Ford and like Chevy and those big guys. Yeah. those big guys yeah uh the more you realize how how far ahead tesla is but how how much how how far there is to go uh to actually make evs useful for most people but i think you know the basic premise is you're just going electric like right you just put a battery in it you charge it and you drive it the same way a normal car drives but i don't think there's any sort of magic sauce to it other than that you just kind of have to right so it's so it's more like on the infrastructure side it's really important getting it on yeah obviously less flashy and like you know magic feature that's winning the market over but it's like that's what you have to nail to to make a good ev okay and so you know now you're you said you're 25 yeah so now that you're 25 do you feel like there's gonna be a point where you have less of a pulse on like the new oh i'm so scared of that yeah i'm 29 and i'm like oh no do you feel out of 29 like i don't know it's i'm i'm scared of being that that like old guy who's like out of touch like but at least at least i think that process will be slower for me because i i'm so immersed in it now yeah like with music maybe i'm already there like music new music comes out that like the i tried to listen to like the billboard 100 okay like whatever the other day and i was just like this is objectively bad like i can't i can't do this i clearly am out of the loop but uh i guess with tech i don't know maybe i'm i'm a little more immersed, so that might take longer. Yeah, or it's just near and dear to your heart, so it really matters. Yeah, or I'll just... Well, there's also hope because there are plenty of much older tech journalists and tech YouTubers who are doing their thing. So, I mean, if you stay in that world, it's kind of just part of what you're doing every day. No, and I know plenty of older people who are way more into music than i am and like catch things early yeah but it is this like core fear as a you know creative person where you're like dude am i yeah my old school right now am i out of it yeah yeah yeah so do you uh does that fear like motivate you to try like weirder YouTube stuff or are you like kind of, you know, this kind of phone, whatever video works and I'm just going to keep banging it out. I don't know if, yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm definitely trying to diversify the, the, the breadth of coverage you might call it. Um, I don't think that's out of fear of like forgetting what's popular i think that's just because like i'm interested in other things so there's other ways to talk about them um so there's the reviews and there's smartphone stuff but there's also the car videos now which is the autofocus series but there's also like i'm into production naturally because that's what i'm doing all the time so i'm doing this this whole like spaces series where I'm I'm talking to other creators and how they use their space um I'm ideally starting a podcast pretty soon where I can just talk with people about things like this um so there's I think that just comes from like all the other things that I've become interested in of course through you know making tech videos interesting so what else would be the on the podcast uh i want to talk to other creators that's like probably the main thing because that's not something that is readily available to me i think like when you get to a certain a certain place in this creative world there's no longer like a an article you can go read to figure out how to do something. Like when you're starting YouTube, you can figure out like what's the best DSLR for a thousand bucks and then buy it and find the lens that works best with it and then start from there. But like when I'm trying to figure out like, hmm, how do I best like start a new series given the current uploads and like the pace of you know the way things are moving like all these nuanced questions that don't necessarily have answers but that other creative people think about too uh just talking with people about that kind of stuff yeah i mean it sounds a lot like just strategy right where like two things can simultaneously be true but you have to pick one yeah and that that can be a little intimidating i guess and helpful yeah so like yeah it's less math more just like i don't know it's just strategy yeah strategy and like creative insight yeah yeah and so what are you going to try and like innovate in your podcast in any way because i'm what i'm kind of fishing for is like you know obviously youtube video right like what are the other mediums that you're like testing out to feel like oh maybe there's an audience here like maybe i can break ground here yeah i feel like video as a medium is my favorite by far so um i think i don't think about new mediums as much as i think of new ways to do video uh new topics new formats within video um podcasting being like a sort of an auxiliary way to to also talk is that bixby i don't know um that is bixby i've never even heard it in real life. And I've never intentionally triggered Bixby. So that's like the third or fourth time that it's thought I've been talking to it. Uh, where was I? Oh, I mean, video. Yeah. I, I, I think I'm still trying to figure out the whole video thing generally. Um, and that might be a battle I never win, but I feel like that's, that's going to be taking up most of my time is, is doing different types of videos. Okay. Okay. And so have you tried 360? Have you tried VR? Like, have you tried these new formats? I have, I've tried one, I've published one 360 video. Okay. And it was one that I thought was a really good idea. It was a studio tour. So it would idea it was a studio tour so it'd be like you're sort of moving around the studio but you can also look around and see what's behind you and around you so you sort of feel like you're in that space that's a good use of vr and that was fun um but that was one of those things where like i struggled to find other genuinely productive uses for it in my in my case yeah um it's awesome for games i love it for games i love for other stuff but video, it's been sort of a head scratcher. Well, it's very, we did a podcast with Jessica Brillhart, who's a VR creator in New York. And, um, it's a difficult storytelling challenge because like with film, you're inherently like controlling the viewpoint of your audience. Yeah. And with games, you lose, you explore. Right. Exactly. So very like natively fits in but even just like the prep involved in like shooting a 360 video like right now there's a bunch of like wires and shit dangling all over the place it's no big deal when the camera can control that yeah exactly yeah that's another challenge i mean the the rig we use was really cool like we could have um yeah basically like you it's not like literally following me around but it went from place to place and we had a couple set up places around the studio so the video would move between these places and you could follow me around um but yeah that's like that to me was like peak 360 like i figured it out this is the best use of 360 in my case real estate yeah um but outside of that yeah it's been like uh maybe a maybe just tours in general like a lot of car stuff is hard because it's such a small space um maybe getting a smaller rig in there where you can sort of look around as if you're in the car that's tough yeah but do you feel limited by cameras in any way at this point only slightly okay and i feel like i'm like not even allowed to complain because the cameras i use are so obscene um but on occasion i wish the camera had autofocus i wish the camera was smaller i wish the camera's battery lasted longer but those are like pretty minor things as far as because i can still get the image i want eventually if i work hard enough you don't have autofocus on all your cameras i don't really yeah just the lens or the actual camera uh the camera essentially it has a really really poor autofocus system but it's a it's a red camera and no one uses autofocus for red cameras so they don't really work on it so it's not good um so it's manual focus all the time. And that has its downsides, obviously, especially when we're doing car stuff, trying to do fixed focus car stuff when the car moves all the time. It's tricky. There's a lot of weird things with fixed focus, but we've messed with rigs where we can do remote follow focus stuff and all kinds of other hacks to get around it. Okay. But yeah, that's like one of those weird things do you do much drone stuff a little bit for for cars it's funny because we i always wanted to do drone stuff but for the longest time i was mostly doing like handheld gadgets so it felt like what what do i need a drone for like it's just gonna fly away from me holding an ipad like that's not that compelling but now that we're doing car stuff yes there's plenty of use for drones okay have you mounted anything to the hood i don't know like those giant gimbals have you tried that out yet uh we've gone we've gotten a little into that like we have this whole i guess we're always trying to make you know setups for scenarios yeah and i think the next scenario setup we're working on is like the chase car uh how do you shoot a car from any angle you want from another car? So you can obviously go out the side because there's a window where you can get a sliding door. We shot out the back. So we have the lift gate go up. We can go like hold a gimbal out of the back. But shooting the back of a car in front of you is hard because there's a sloped windshield. So it's distorted. So do you hang out the side but then you're off axis so there's kind of a weird problem with shooting the back of a car okay that's like one of those things we're working on i guess putting something on the hood would be a way to shoot a car in front of you but then you're fixed in your height so you can't really go low but then there's those camera cars that have a jib on top of it you can go all kinds of angles so that might be fun but as of right now that's pretty early yeah this is this is a funny creator problem because industry people have figured this out oh yeah yeah like if you see like professional you know like tesla shoots like they got it locked down yeah absolutely but like marquez individual youtube guy like just to fly to la and like film on the pch like the question is like how do you do that and so that those are the kinds of questions that you're curious about yep okay yeah and there's not like a youtuber network where you just like call call up whatever there's i mean there are youtube friends that also have similar questions like we can talk about it all we want i've had a couple friends who are obviously in la because that's where almost everyone is but um and we talk about gear all the time and like production strategy in a way like how do you shoot these things yeah um we've collaborated on one of the last things we did was when we interviewed elon we did a a factory tour yeah which was like how do you shoot a factory tour with like two people walking through it do you just have one person hold the camera while you're out or do you have a person next to it you know that's like that was a whole thing where we had to figure out how to do that um but yeah and the industry's got it all locked up yeah but it's also i i think what what a lot of people could get from you is like storytelling techniques. Because that, at the core of it, like obviously the product's cool, right? But like you're a storyteller too, right? And so when you're going to go and do an interview with Elon, and I saw most of your interviews are like 10 minutes, 15 minutes long, right? I assume it's cut down. Yeah, yeah. And a lot of it also is because they're really busy people. And that's just all the time that we get with them and then all we have but yeah that's like a it's like a happy medium of talking a little longer than a five minute video yeah which is a nice format for youtube like we've tried both and i mean i'm so impressed with rogan he's like three hour videos and people are into it yeah he's amazing yeah um so when you think about like okay i'm maybe we should do a product scenario right like how do you think about storytelling in the case of a review context so what came before it what came next to it what it's up against and momentum in a way so let's say a new phone comes out. You naturally compare it to the phone that came before it. And then you compare it to other phones around it and how much those stepped forward versus how much it stepped forward. And that right there can be an enough of an interesting story for a lot of, a lot of devices that come out. I remember when iPad pro came out. Yeah. That story was like iPad was already so far ahead in tablets. And then iPad Pro took a massive step forward versus the last iPad. Like this is obscene how much, like there is no other $1,300 tablet I would even consider. Like that's alone in its category, which is really fascinating. So yeah, I guess those two things like the context of other products that exist next to it and what came before it okay and when it comes to storytelling of you as a person like expanding it you know like all the gross words like personal brand and all that stuff uh where do you go like how do you tell your story and then how do you go? Like, how do you tell your story? And then how do you fit in what your future plans and hopes are? I guess I kind of, I do less of that because I consider tech the star of the show. Okay. Um, I think I, I do inject my own personal humor or perspective on occasion just because it's, it's's fun keeps it interesting um and that's its own challenge but i've always considered tech the star of the show and any way i can i try to make that the main story interesting and so that will just continue to drive future projects for you yeah i mean the the one string that ties everything together is it's coming from me. So it's always the same perspective. So like when you see a new car video, like with Top Gear, for example, you know that guy has driven these cars before, so he's gonna think of it in the context of all those other cars. So when I do a car video, you know I'm gonna compare it to the other four or five cars I've driven, which are electric. So, like, that's the difference between, you know, a car video from me and someone else. But at the end of the day, the car is the thing. Like, that's what I'm talking about and sharing with people. But I guess I'm probably underweighting how important my own personal voice is. But I really try to make the tech the star of the show. Well, I think it's the focus in your video. I appreciate the modesty, but like there are how many million YouTube channels of people reviewing phones. True, true, very true. So you've stood out in some way. So you got like a hundred plus questions from Twitter. I want to answer some of them. We're going to the middle initial okay for 10 million subscribers yes yes yes of course um but there are a lot of best practices around youtube uh you may have answered these before but uh marco castro asked what advice do you have for new creators on youtube new creators uh new creators being pretty broad because you can be a new creator in tech or a comedy or a new photographer you know there's all kinds of new creators but on youtube generally like if i was starting over today yeah um i would kind of do a lot of what i'm doing now which is like you take your inspiration from other places but you always have to come back to your own voice and your own perspective don't try to be something else that already exists or there won't be any reason to watch it it already exists um so find your own new angle your own new voice uh your own new way of showing or or talking about things yeah and and then get started and a lot of it just comes to luck and youtube's kind of saturated yeah the consistency is very important when do you think you found your voice as a creator i think super early really i've always been like i want crispy video i want high quality i i know what i want like i think that came at the very beginning even when i was oh man doing these tutorial videos yeah i watched a couple they're fun oh god yeah i'm sorry no it's i love going like you went through puberty on youtube essentially yeah um yeah there's all these i did all these tutorial videos which are just screencasts so it's just my screen and a mouse moving and i was obsessed with getting the highest frame rate possible and the smoothest motion blur of my cursor on the screen and like that it's so stupid but like i've always wanted that production to facilitate the story as as best as possible i want the quality to be like as realistic as it can be so that it's not a distraction yeah and that's still the way it is like i i my product the whole almost like shtick is like overproduced like really filming it on a lot exactly yeah overly realistic but to the point where like if you look at this video on your screen you'll feel the closest to actually holding it in real life like that's the goal so i think that i don't know if that's my voice or just my style but i found that to be a priority pretty early well i think it's kind of a combination right because you both you have your taste which i think the world has decided is good sure and yeah and then just your like hardened opinion that this is going to be super high quality right right and so did you grow up with these like values given to you or is it a personal thing you just were born with uh i guess it must have been instilled in me in some way i mean i've always been into tech and and tech has always had a like an emphasis on like we're the best we're the highest but they're like hardcore like this is the highest quality mentality. That's a great question. I guess, I guess it's just what I decided I wanted at some point. Um, I never really thought about that. It's, it's just, it seems like it would be everyone's goal when I think about it. Like striving for the highest quality production, uh, it was a no-brainer to me and i guess it's when you end up in the position where you're able to you know use really high-end equipment and like you can make more of what you want because of the position you're in yeah it's even more of a no-brainer um because the barrier is lower but i guess yeah that that challenge to challenge to make the perfect video is like, so the air quotes for audio listeners, that's always probably going to be a moving goalpost. Yeah, you're always reaching for it and it's always slipping away. But there's something innate in you, right? And I think in a lot of people who are, I wouldn't go so far as always calling people perfectionists, but to like want to do it over again and over again and over again until it's just right. That's the thing. That's the thing that creators have to overcome. And that a lot of times you don't want to. Like if you end up like I would consider myself borderline like perfectionist and some stuff. borderline like perfectionist and some stuff I remember doing like SAT stuff where it was like okay you have to write this essay you're gonna get the topic and like you have to write it right then like I want to think about this for a couple days before I actually put a pen to paper and like you just have to spit out three pages and hopefully it's good enough like that's kind of the way YouTube like a new phone just came out go like you don't get to sit on this for a while like you you form the best thing you can and if it's 95 there and it's done that's better than 99 there and still working on it uh that's a that's a barrier for me like i wish i could take more time with a lot of stuff uh but tech just moves fast so you just kind of have to evolve your your production and ideally make the best thing you can and do you do you follow your your listeners do you follow your gut when it comes to making choices like is there is there like a data-driven approach to what kind of videos you're making no it's i'd say it's almost no data at all it's i mean you get you get you get the yeah you get you have comments of people who are like this part of the video was cool i enjoyed that or or like uh you you could have spent more time on i wish you'd gone into this more or uh i was wondering about this and i'm glad you addressed it like certain things like that okay um were and i guess the only data it comes down to is like i made a six minute video on this phone but i left out these three things i wonder if an eight minute video would have been watchable like knowing you know all the other things that go into youtube and retention and and how long people watch and the attention span of the internet um i guess that's all data but at the end of the day i'm just like i guess yeah i probably could have included that or maybe i didn't have to go into that much detail about this new camera it It's almost the same as last year. Yeah. Like that kind of stuff. Wow. 12 minute video could have been nine minutes and said almost the same thing. Um, information density is my, my like writing challenge. I'm trying to fit as much, uh, structurally sound information. That's like followable to most people as possible. Uh, which in tech is i don't know if that's more or less of a challenge probably more um well it's it's tough to decide what's most valuable to people that's mainly it like i a lot of people the best comments you get really or that i get are from people who've never seen the videos before and a lot of times they'll say oh you know these are videos for like the mainstream buyer, like not for the hardcore tech person. But all the information that goes into saying those top level things, the way I said them came from all the depth of using the device and all the hardcore stuff that I left out. So in a way it feels like, oh, I should just include everything so that they know that I left out. So in a way it feels like, oh, I should just include everything so that they know that I'm like really into what I'm talking about. Yeah. I'm legit guys. I swear. Um, but it, it becomes less presentable that way. It becomes verbose that way. Like I can say the same thing five different ways, but the shortest, most succinct, uh, complete way is usually the best way. Um, so that's what i've been trying to do that's kind of the mark of someone who really knows what they're talking about too like if you can teach it to someone who's 10 years old it's true then you can explain it it's also the selling point of a lot of great companies you know apple absolutely foremost uh all right before we go more into the youtube questions uh dude how do you deal with youtube comments um i've it's people i think people really hate youtube comments and for whatever reason um it hasn't been that bad for me okay now i can say lately uh meme culture has has made its appearance in my comment section far more often in the past couple months for an unnamed reason. Yeah. I'll just say it's Will Smith's fault. But I think the comment section has actually been pretty helpful and pretty great for me for the past couple years. And whether that's like, because I kind of, I can also separate the comment section into kind of three categories. Hour one of upload, which is like useless. It's mainly just people saying either first or uh reacting to the title and thumbnail and not actually watching the video or just like getting something in to hopefully get a response like the first hour is not really very useful then there's like hour two through 24 which is like people watching the video and being somewhat thoughtful before leaving what i'd consider a useful comment. And then there's people who are finding it in search. So this is no longer subscribers. This is people who were looking for something about this device, found this video, clicked it hoping for something, and left a comment based on what they watched. Those are the most useful comments. So if you can divide that that like if all you're reading is the first three hours of comments you're like this is useless i hate youtube comments yeah but if you can sort of stitch those out into like what's coming from what audience then it can actually be somewhat productive i think for me yeah i always i always struggle with the personal attacks yeah yeah i think i think they just kind of get drowned out and and that's probably another benefit of where the channel is like people just bury that stuff okay it's pretty great that's great yeah and you didn't get it when you were a kid i definitely did and i ignored it and i think i built a thick skin from that and and now it's just kind of it probably still exists and i just ignore it that's fucking awesome uh okay so austin rider asks in the early years of the channel marquez took a several month hiatus from youtube but then came back with a new video format and seemingly renewed drive what happened during those months off that's a great very dedicated that's a very few people know that um that was when I was in high school and that was my senior year and I just had to finish, get my grades up, college applications, the last year of ultimate, like three days a week practices for hours. Like that was just like, I don't have time. I want to make videos so bad. But if I do, I'm gonna get in that rabbit hole again and I'm gonna try to make videos so bad. But if I do, I'm going to get in that rabbit hole again and I'm going to try to make five videos a week and I'm just not going to have the time for the things that matter right now. So that was the end of high school where I was applying to colleges, going to all these things and interviews and pre-college and all this stuff. SAT is the whole deal. And the renewed drive was just excitement to be back? The renewed drive was like, hell yes, I'm back. Five days a week. Let's go. College, no schedule. I'm in it. I'm in it. Yeah. That was, that was a pretty good time. Okay. Right on. A bunch of people asked the same question. Winston asked, what's your daily schedule? Because I'm particularly curious because you also maintain a level of fitness for Ultimate. Yeah i practiced last night um my daily schedule so i kind of i would separate into weekdays and weekends okay um weekend weekdays i guess are divided again into production days or uh pre-production post-production days. Production days are filming, editing, the meat of making videos and writing especially. And pre-production or post-production days are more of like the inbox, the strategy, the what comes next, the travel, all that sort of stuff that comes in between the videos. And then there's nights, which are either like the leagues I play in or practice or so I play for the pro ultimate team for New York. We had practice last night on Randall's Island. It was cold, so cold. Um, and then weekends are ultimate. I don't, I don't work on weekends and that used to be a thing. I would just work in between Frisbee, but Frisbee happens on weekends. So that's traveling, that's playing, that's resting, that's like disconnected from the internet type stuff. And so you train by practicing? Yes. There's no like other regiment involved? I have a gym in my basement. I like ask anyone who's like around me a lot. I'm usually there at night. Okay. But Ask anyone who's like around me a lot. I'm usually there at night. Okay. But as far as like playing a lot, that's kind of the best training you can get. So that's where I spend a lot of time. And so in your gym, what are you doing? Squats? What are you doing? I have a bike. I have the treadmill, but then I have a lot of free weights. I believe in free weights. I don't have know what the bar is called. Oh, parallel bars? No, you're standing in it. And it's just, I don't know. To do dips and stuff? To do squats or to do, dang, I don't know the names of any of these things. Like a deadlift? Yeah, like a deadlift. But I don't know what the bar is called. Hexagon thing. Yes, that hexagon thing yes that thing you have a name it's like a dead uh i'm sure it probably has a name let's call it a hex bar hex bar yeah you got a hex bar yeah sure that's some plates so yeah that's that's like some of the time but then eventually you you just have to throw and i don't want to get into like ultimate advice but like i said you have a scar on your hand is that ultimate related that is ultimate related i in college uh went to go lay out to get a defensive play and i on the turf skidded forward and snapped my finger in half so i had uh i got a little plate and screws in there now fix that bone strongest bone in my body now reinforced that's great yeah i got screws in my shoulder i feel the same way yeah yeah uh all right ahmad khan asks are there any problems that you see or face that you really wish engineers or developers would solve engineers and developers i mean we're kind of on it they're kind of on it um a lot of times there's like the beginning like folding phones for example like you kind of see the beginning of like some potential and you're like oh i hope they go all in on that uh that could be really cool in the future but generally like it's all being worked on i wish some of it was being worked on more than it is um i'm reviewing a lot of phones right now whose cameras are just not close to the pixels camera in particular and i know they could get closer i know they could put a little more into that but they don't and that's their own choice and their own priority yeah um but they totally could um so stuff like that that's just like things that i prefer in some devices i wish were were more of a priority but generally i think uh we live in a pretty good world nothing really sucks anymore you know like the tech we use even at the lower end just kind of works pretty well yeah no it's very so i haven't upgraded my phone for that reason yeah it's fine yeah which is great it's like could use a better camera but it's okay yeah um so one question was from a startup founder, Chris Giordano. He asks, any tips on how to engage with influencers when you're a very early stage startup with little or no money? Yeah. My biggest tip would be to offer something that would make it, it's got to be a win-win for everyone involved. So even if you're not a startup even if you're like a company who's just not uh into influencer marketing yet the whole idea of creators working with companies is obviously they need to the financial support but also they want to be able to make something that they wouldn't have otherwise been able to make uh so whether they're given access to something or they're given, um, a behind the scenes, look at something, something like that. You don't have to like always pay them a lot, but like if you can get something like that, that suddenly their audience is really into, that's a win too. So if that's a win for the audience, cause I got a better video, that's a win for the creator. Cause they could make something better that their audience now gets to see. And that's a win for the creator because they could make something better that their audience now gets to see and that's a win for the company involved because now your your stuff is in front of a new audience um so even if you don't have the financial means to just dive right into paying for ads um you can always offer something that can make a video better and if you do like i also i also notice a lot that not a lot of research is done they kind of just have like this list of tech channels and they just sort of just blanket carpet everyone the same email um but if you really want to work with a certain creator for a certain reason make that clear like that like you've watched their videos and you notice a theme uh and you think there's some potential for a building on something there that's worth you think there's some potential for a building on something there that's worth expounding upon so in addition to this kind of influencer marketing where do you see the future of individual creators supporting themselves as business going we have this question most often in relation to podcasts right how are people going to monetize it's even shakier on youtube especially lately just sort of because of where we're at. And I get it. The easy answer is just be PC and be super clean and never push any buttons. But at a certain point, that's not where you want to be. You kind of want to be able to explore and do different things. So you have to diversify your income. That's the simple answer. So at this point I can use myself as an example. The channel obviously has ads on it and that's been one version of income as an independent creator. There's also something called affiliate income where you talk about products a lot. you might as well share the availability to buy those products so amazon has an affiliate system bnh has an affiliate system um there's also a merch store this is something not every creator can do but if you can why not um i very recently super late got into it but like trying to make uh a sort of people ask me all the time what sweatshirt i was wearing in videos i figured i might as well offer a sweatshirt at some point um you can you can you can turn that into sort of a fashion brand if you will um and and just having different different ways of of supporting the same thing when they all sort of point back to the same thing what about those paid subscriptions or even oh yeah see how the patreon so at a certain point you can ask um dedicated viewers who really want to support what you do directly if they want to contribute more um oftentimes they won't have a problem with that if they really like your work or if your work isn't uh common i think a lot of times if they feel like they can just find what you're doing somewhere else then there's no reason for them to stick around or pay for it but if what you do is like less frequent or it's really high effort or it's not something that that they're gonna find somewhere else yeah and that'll come from you working on your craft for a long time uh then oftentimes they'll have no problem deciding they want to help you out cool and when it comes to you now that you're a pretty successful channel, what are those ratios look like? Do you know off the top of your head? Yeah, I would say the, I'm still at a point where like the YouTube ads are probably 40, 40 to 50%. Um, the, I don't do a whole lot of sponsored stuff okay if i did that number would be much higher but i think right now sponsored stuff is probably about 20 so 40 20 and then affiliate stuff being another 10 so we're at like what 70 now so i guess yeah youtube ads is probably bigger youtube ads probably 50 of what the the streams look like so you think your biggest problem right now as a creator is like figuring out how to do these more difficult things yeah yeah i mean i i'm still on that quest of production like i know my videos can be better like there there's still always a gap between like a great youtube video and a movie. Of course. Like everyone can tell a YouTube video from a movie and everything. But like ideally that like seamless like production where I can tell the story I want, show what I want to show and not have any barriers in the way as far as production, that would be ideal. That's probably my biggest challenge. And then one of those like, I feel like an octopus, like chopping off one of my arms and handing it to someone but like having other people who can edit having other people who can do set design uh and can contribute on things that i'm i'm doing eight things at once i wish someone else could take the load off me that kind of stuff is also a challenge for me right now but that's something i'm working on too that's interesting all right so i guess my last question for you then man sure is uh your long your long-term goal like what are you shooting for in 10 15 years well 10 years i'll be 35 over the hill yeah man wow no longer relevant i guess um long-term goal as much as i i've said before like i don't have long-term goals but like most of my my forward thinking is like two to three years out like where i want uh the company to be where i want the production process to be but i guess if you look 10 years out that's more of like like media company type stuff like ideally there's a there's a youtube channel maybe a second youtube channel there's a podcast there's a there's a production aspect to it where you can you can assist with other channels things like that um and i think it's nowhere near on its way there yet i think i'm still so focused on the actual video side of it and and making that what i really want it to be that uh haven't really set foot in these other uh categories yet but um maybe someday soon you're gonna make a movie it's funny you ask that. Like long form stuff, long form being like 45 minute an hour long videos has been fascinating to me on YouTube because it's been proven to be not that unreasonable, especially lately. So the Shane Dawson's of the world, like, like really hitting it home. I like to make a movie. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. All right, man man thanks for coming in thanks for having me