 Matt Kutz, welcome to the podcast. Thanks for having me. No problem. So for those who don't know you, you are the administrator of the U.S. Digital Service. And previously, you were at Google, where you were the head of the web spam team and also the 71st employee in the year 2000. What was Google like in 2000? Oh, man. So we had three people start that day. And that was a new record at the time. Now, you know, you've got like hundreds of people starting each week. But the crazy thing is it was a startup back then, you know, so late nights working crazy hours. I remember one of the first project I worked on was safe search. Okay. And so at one point at like 2 a.m. I got something working and I was really happy. So I i was gonna head home and i was like speeding because i was like super excited i got this thing working got a speeding ticket um and so i i literally remember like working every weekend until at some point people were like oh three or four years in we're like we don't work on weekends anymore and i was like oh now the culture's changed a little bit but it's super weird to be like the people who were just folks you know amit or lucas or whoever then eventually became entire departments you know sales departments and people who dealt with logs and privacy and but it back then it was just like a small group of people it's crazy how do you because i know that the story with pb creating creating Gmail is just like a one guy goof. Let's see if we can do this. Right. How did projects get delegated and chosen? How did it all work? Well, it was funny because I started out, I did safe search, and then there was this ski offsite. Like everybody fit on one bus, one 50 person bus back then. So that was a great introduction to the company. And I was skiing and on a lift with a manager and she was like, hey, Matt, you like doing front end programming. And I was like, sure, I like front end programming. And then like, boom, guess what? You're in the ads group now. I'm like, wait, I don't want to be in the ads group. But there were only like five people and they needed to help so i was like trying to help out we did like geolocation and it took like a year to claw my way back towards you know ranking so you know it was very informal it was very much like here's a problem we got to go swarm and tackle it um even writing safe search was because there was a partner that wanted it you know and so we're like okay can we build this in time let's see if we can make it so on like a self-hosted version or like a white yeah okay to what degree did you feel like the success of google was certain at the time completely uncertain i mean if you go back i think google had raised like 25 million dollars uh from you know like kleiner perkins and sequoia or whatever and so as i recall the dot-com crash happened like march of 2000 winter apocalypse everybody was like this is going to be terrible and uh and so it wasn't at all clear that we were going to be able to make it i remember when alta vista i was worried they were going to crush us oh man because like you know you got a certain number of ranking signals and if they had twigged and and caught on fast enough they even like copied our appearance they had a certain number of ranking signals and if they had twigged and caught on fast enough, they even copied our appearance. They had a little front end that you could set it where you could be like, I think they called it goofy. It was rainbow colored so it looked a little like Google. But they didn't get the quality right. So we were okay from that point of view. But it was nonstop for several years. I mean, trying to make sure that in those early days microsoft didn't realize how much money was coming from search engines right uh but also adwords and and later adsense like can you walk through that product development because i'm so curious yeah yeah what what did you start you're like think oh this might not be a thing and then like a certain type of ad takes off or you tried something it failed so it was it was wild because back then people were like, do you have salespeople sell stuff, which was the default? So you go to the most profitable folks. And do you sell by CPM, cost per thousand, or do you sell by cost per click? There was this thing called Overture where people could bid on things. And so there was a whole bunch of shifts in strategy where people are like, let's figure out how to do this. So at one point I was in the ads group and they said, we're going to do this prototype of self-service advertising. So we're going to make some little ads on the right hand side. And oh, man, I forgot to turn off caching when I ran that experiment. And I nearly melted Google at that point, which was not cool. Because they were just dynamically serving them constantly to everyone. Well, no at google at that point which was not cool because they were just dynamically serving them constantly to everyone well no no this was the this was super super prototype so it was like the ads were like pool tables and playstation and i forget what the third one was for any search for no but in order to show enough you had to have it in the experiment for like 30 of people because not that many people were searching for playstations or whatever uh and so i turned off caching for 30 of google which radically like like racks were melting down all this sort of stuff so i remember we looked at the click-through rate and uh and it was really low um because we just picked some copy you know we hadn't done any ab testing we're like would you like to buy a playstation now kind of thing and as i recall marissa was like this is not good for the user experience and larry page was like well maybe but i could imagine click through going up so let's let's explore this a little bit more that surprises me because i've heard stories about banner ads for example in the beginning having crazy click-through rate so why was that not working uh you know the only thing i can think of is the copy probably sucked it was off on the right hand side people probably didn't know what exactly is this thing over here and it was kind of fun because it were like multi-color ads back then were you like throwing in pictures and trying to make no pictures but i remember like a one pixel darker color boundary like they were really pretty ads but i think people just didn't even know to click on them. And it turns out having people willing to put in the A-B testing makes a huge difference. And the first self-service ad we got for AdWords was, I think, for a lobster company. You could buy lobsters in Maine and have them packed in dry ice and shipped to you. And that was the point when we were like, oh, there's this whole long tail of people who want to reach people who are looking for the things that they're looking you know selling pre-social media oh yeah totally did you do like a user study you like call the person in main up like what made you choose to do this i hope that they got in touch with that you'd figure it'd be like a pizza shop in san jose right not a lot yeah right i really hope they got in touch and we're like did you know you were the very first one yeah and i remember i went to a search conference a few years back and somebody was like hey i was one of the first adwords advertisers and i was like oh cool what did you do and he was like it wasn't family safe and i was like oh interesting oh, interesting. Yeah, and he was like talking about how he tweaked all the keywords and did all the testing. But people were willing to put in that work because you could get, you know, you could find these little cavities where nobody else was searching. And like, if you found the right word, you could actually get great click-through rates and a great response. Well, I think you see it today with youtube right yeah like people realize like oh there's nothing for this kind of flat earth search therefore they just like fill it up yeah so we used to call that um the evil unicorn problem or at least i used to call it that because people come to google and they'll search for something like flat earth right and there's no good answers because you're looking for the most reputable useful results to give people and like there's not that many legitimate folks who are like oh yeah the earth's totally So, but you still have to show 10 results unless you like change the interface to say you're in a, in an untrusted area, which we, we experimented with that later. Um, and, and so like the folks who realize there are people searching for evil unicorns, you know, everybody thinking unicorns are perfect, nice perfect nice whatever but you can still search for evil unicorn and then you got to have 10 results for evil unicorn and so it's sort of this lacuna like a lack of information and so when there's not high quality information you still end up showing something and so the folks who realize they can make flat earth content or whatever we're filling in a gap and so at that point you're just like hey listen we're a common carrier to a certain extent and whatever comes through comes through it gets really hard with common carrier and publisher and 230 and all that sort of stuff so there were there were literally people who sued us because we took action on them because we considered them spammers like they were literally selling page rank like i will link to you and the amount of money is based on the amount of PageRank I have. And then we took action, and they were like, that's unfair, and we're like, wow. Like, we rank the search results. And so there was one called Search King, and the result of that lawsuit was that search results are protected by the First Amendment. So that was a useful court precedent. And then there was one called Kinderstart where they were saying page rank is an algorithm. And so you have no ability or right to like zero out somebody's page rank or to take action. But if you follow that to the natural logical extreme, like then you'd never be able to like tweak or adjust the search engine or like manually say, oh, I haven't, you know, this one spam, but we haven't caught it yet. Our algorithms aren't ready yet. So we're not allowed to take action on it. And so we won that lawsuit as well. But it was super interesting to see how people thought about search, whether it was like a newspaper or whether it was like a card catalog at a library or like a magazine. And, you know, people just want high quality, relevant results. They don't want to delve too deeply into you know i don't want to they we tried giving people knobs yeah you know where you could you know tweak how reputable something would be and nobody nobody nobody ever used it they just click on the first five or whatever typically yeah so where do you fall now with things like youtube where you just go deep deep deep and you might not even know you're in it so i i think one good thing about google you know having left there several years ago now is that the people really care about trying to do the right thing yeah and so trying to return high quality relevant results and and the same thing for youtube it's a different silo within google but a lot of the dna is the same and so when you see you know searches for something that doesn't actually exist and so spammers are ranking for it on youtube like youtube wants to take care of that and so i think some of the recent stuff where people are like getting getting down a rabbit hole i'm sure that there are engineers thinking very hard about how do we solve this problem and make it work better yeah okay i could talk to you about google back in the day for a very long time i want to be careful but i i was curious so being early on the web spam team and then running web spam you've read these stories about content moderators like overseas looking at you know horrible stuff yeah were you exposed to that yeah i mean yes more so with safe search where you were trying to detect you know pornography and and non-family safe things and for a while so larry and sergey shared an office for a long time because they were on the road and you know we were tight on real estate yeah yeah and so for a long time i had the cubicle right outside of larry and sergey's office and this was right when i was working on safe search and so i was like oh, trying to see if I could find stuff that had slipped through. And if I did, I would, you know, try to tweak word weights and stuff like that. And so at some point, Colpreet, who was our first lawyer at Google came by and he was like, Hey, um, Hey Matt, we know you have to like, look for pornography. It's part of your job it's a vital thing that you do but like it kind of weirds out when visitors are coming to visit like ceo's office and there's a new line of sight it looks kind of like you're looking at porn and we know you're doing it for work but could you put like a whiteboard up to block and i was like okay i can i can do that so yeah i did i did end up seeing a lot of stuff but um but it was a little bit of a different time like safe search was just towards pornography and spam was more like buy cheap viagra and loan consolidation stuff and so it wasn't nearly as bad as a lot of the content moderators um had to deal with there there is one aspect though in which once you've seen all the different ways in which people try to spam and cheat and break the rules you can't unsee that like it's the black hat mindset like once you realize hey here's a thing where people can recycle their conference badges my mind immediately goes to what if that's not the conference and then people have free conference badges that they can then use for their friends on the last two or three days of a conference like you literally can't look around the world and not think about how is somebody going to abuse that system. Right, so now do you feel that people are fundamentally evil? No, no. It was funny, whenever we were working with, there's a lot of publishers and websites that do search engine optimization or SEO. And there was a little bit of folks early on who were like, oh, that's all evil. That's 100%, You're trying to manipulate things, therefore bad, therefore take action. And there was a VP of engineering. His name was Wars who, who really had the right approach. He was like, look, these are small businesses. They're trying to do the best they can to make sure that they rank well, because they think they have some of the best services on the internet. So we shouldn't begrudge them trying to rank well. We should give them good things that they can do, like make your site better, make it faster, make it easy to navigate. And so that was really kind of a turning point where a lot of folks who might have been antagonistic towards SEO saw it more like this is energy which can be channeled in a positive way, which I think is you know folks are just trying to do the best thing for their business there's a few that are yeah of course bad actors yeah uh but for the most part you know people just want to know give me the ground rules make sure that everybody's behaving consistently by that if there's somebody i see violating the ground rules can i tell you about that and will you take action on that and so trying to make sure that people know the right positive things to work on and the right negative things to avoid, I think helped diffuse a lot of the tension where it shouldn't be SEOs or websites versus Google or a search engine. It should be working together to give the best results. Yeah, that makes sense. Another thing that's interesting about your time at Google was just how long it was. I think the average tenure now is two years or less at a tech company. I don't know. Yeah, I stayed there for a month short of 17 years. That's a good run. Yeah, yeah. So how did you think about your work over that long, long period? Because you came right out of a PhD, right? You didn't finish. Yeah. Maybe someday. My dad's like, you can still go back. I'm like, I don't think I'm going to go back, dad. I'm good. In the beginning, you're an IC, right? How long was it before you were managing people? What did that whole progression look like for you? Yeah, I got to code for about five years before they, like in 2004, 2005. Okay, so worked on SafeSearch, worked in the ads group, and then I was on quality. Was on quality for the rest of my time at Google. And it was funny because for a while I was like, spam's going to be an issue. And it was not a popular opinion within Google. Yeah, for a long I was like, spam's going to be an issue. And it was not a popular opinion within Google. Yeah. For a long time, people thought... Because they thought the algorithm was so good? Yes. They thought Google couldn't be spammed. And it was because I worked on SafeSearch and I found a loophole that I was like, oh no. Oh, there's going to be a problem here. Yeah. So you use an example on the history of the internet podcast where like someone bought an expired domain, turned it into a porn site. Yes. Stuff like that. Exactly. And so after that, uh, you know, I remember having an argument with a very early employee of Google who was like, well, that's easy. You just solve expired domains and then you're done. Uh, but that doesn't take into account guest books and award programs and fake awards that you'd give just to get links to people and social engineering and da da da da da and so it was almost like you could see this thing coming down the horizon and everybody else was busy they were working on other stuff google was great at the time like back in 2000 it's you'd have a hard time convincing people like there was ever going to be spammed so there was some tension there for a little while. But eventually he started working on spam. And after a little while longer, again, this one great VP of engineering named Ors was like, he invited me to his office one day. And he was like, Matt, bearing in mind that you can't say no, how would you like to manage the web spam team? And at the time I was just a lowly engineer. I was like oh i guess i can't say no right so i guess i'm a manager now um is this that you're managing tactic now for negotiations that's such a bad tactic because if they realize they can be like or i could go work somewhere else or i could just say no yeah um but it actually worked out because you've you become less productive but you enable so many more people to become productive. And so really kind of worked on it for the rest of my time at Google, being a manager and trying to guide and help people to partner with them to figure out how to make the quality of the search results better. If you were thrown back into Google right now, how would you be thinking about deepfakes? Oh, man. So the idea that you can create a video which has somebody, you know, falsely superimposing someone else's picture is a super hard problem. Because like in theory, OK, you could do content aware hashes where you could say this video is extremely similar to this other video except for like these pixels but then people can like change the histogram and like add some noise and add a chiron or something so it's fundamentally a hard problem i in general with web spam the philosophy was do as much as you can with an algorithm catch the residual with you know manual spam people who are you know well trained and extremely good at being able to catch things and then use that as the training data for the next wave of algorithms. But fundamentally when you're synthesizing new content as opposed to just republishing old content, that's a lot harder to detect. That's a tricky one. That job is not over yet at Google. No, and I think the main thing is just to have policies. If you have a good reason to believe that there's a deepfake, how do you handle that process? Because I don't think you'll be able to completely automate the detection. But that's a problem already, right? With deplatforming, demonetizing, or monetizing. It's the same issue. Totally. So after that quite amazing tenure at Google, what motivated you to join usts so it was interesting i was in nebraska at the time with my wife because i was working part-time and and my wife had said why don't we do something fun and i was like okay you get to pick what's next yeah and uh she's like well my family lives in ne. Seems great. So I'm like, all right, let's try that. And after like eight or nine months, I was like, Nebraska is wonderful. The people are really nice. But I also want to try something new for a little while. Did you go to the Berkshire meeting? I did. You did? The Berkshire Hathaway meeting. You buy one share of Berkshire Hathaway, then you can go to this meeting and watch them grill you know warren buffett for eight hours like and they also give you like free you know honey bun treats and yeah all the dairy queen stuff so uh so that was that was a fun like april may kind of thing to do um but it was interesting because i saw a ton of people that i really respect going to dc to try to make a difference in government. And Mikey Dickerson, who was the first guy to run the U S digital service had come back to Google. He'd given a talk and talked about the impact that you could have. And so at that point, you know, I was like, all right, something interesting is going on here. I want to, I want to see what's going on and had an amazing six months. The election happened and they needed somebody who could sort of steward the u.s digital service and make sure it would still be in good shape because the person in front of me was an appointed official mikey was a political appointee yeah and so they needed a sort of interim acting administrator okay and so i was willing to fill in for that role be the acting well and to be clear like a bunch of people stepped up like yes you know some folks left but at this point um something like 75 percent of the people who are in the u.s digital service joined during the trump administration because we've got this sort of two to four year tour of duty model so we're not supposed to stay forever we're supposed to come in bring in skills from the tech industry make systems work better inside government, and then head back out again. And so a fair number of people, there's about 10% of USGS has been around longer than I have. So at some point I need to find the next person to hand the baton to. So can you just, everyone maybe has heard about it, but doesn't exactly know what you work on. Can you just break it down? Absolutely. So the US has heard about it but doesn't exactly know what you work on can you just like break it down absolutely so the u.s digital service started when healthcare.gov went down caught on fire the website was spinning shrapnel everywhere they'd turn on cnn to see whether the website was back up or not uh and it turns out like um you know a bunch of contractors had done good work but the integration points when things were supposed to connect were not really all that well tested. And so bringing in best practices like let's get everybody in a room, try to do a blameless postmortem, let's add monitoring, site reliability, engineering practices, those kinds of things. That was what allowed healthcare.gov to make it through the enrollment period. And so after that, people said, we need more technologists in government. How many hundred million dollar boondoggles do you have where you spend a bunch of money, you spend three years writing the requirements, then four more years writing the tech. And by the time you're done, it doesn't work or it doesn't work as well as you expect it. And so the U.S. Digital Service is sometimes we're a little like a SWAT team. When a system goes down, you know, US Transcom has a database that's down or something like that, we try to work with them and try to figure out how to get it back up. We also do discovery sprints where we'll come in for two weeks and we'll say, we think this is the problem. You might think this is the problem, but it turns out over here is the bigger constraint. And then we'll do anything from months long engagements to years long engagements. So we've worked with, um, USCIS, you know, to try to help immigrants become citizens faster, um, veterans affairs, trying to claim, you know, health benefits and everything like that. And so it's, it's fascinating because you are a federal employee, but you come in for a limited tour of duty anywhere from six months to two years to four years. Um, and then a lot of folks head back into industry, but a surprisingly large number of them say, it turns out I'm ruined for private industry. Like, yeah. Once you have helped make a student loan wizard that literally helps your sister, you know, fix her student loan and be able to get a car and have a better life. Like, you're like, why am I going to go work on Uber for dog walkers? Or how to deliver weed to people better? Which is a fine problem to work on, but you're not saving the world if you're doing that. And so a lot of people are forming startups in civic tech. They're helping to build state digital services. They're doing consultancies. All the way down to some folks who decide to stay in government, which is really exciting because then you've got, you know, people with good emotional intelligence, hopefully good technical ability who can say that's not the way a computer works. Oh, dude, we're going to get to that. Like the whole Facebook hearing. Oh my God. But I'm curious about who makes up your team. team like do you have people like writing cobalt patches like how does it what does it look like we do have one guy who taught himself cobalt for fun really yeah because there's a lot of cobalt in government like a bunch and in fact i could show you a picture of a um oh man there's i won name the agency, but there's a room where they file bugs by printing out COBOL on paper and being like, the room is sorted by line number. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's, it's super scary. But so we're about one third engineers, one third designers, one third product managers. We also have people who are like experts who help decide how to buy things better. We've got an amazing talent team. It's always good to have a lawyer to help you make sure you're not... How big is it? How many folks? We are about 180 people. And it's fascinating because you've got everything from folks who have been in government and wanted to maximize the amount of bureaucracy that they could hack to folks who have been in government and wanted to maximize the amount of bureaucracy that they could hack to folks who are like Facebook engineers. We had a staff software engineer come from Google. She could only come for the summer, but we were like, come on down and let's see how much work we can get done. And it's really gratifying to see people do that. That's cool. So yeah, do you have a different kind of onboarding process given that you know the tour of duty is limited? Yeah. Most of the time, if you want to join the federal government, you go to a site called usajobs.gov. We, you know, if you're interested in joining the U.S. Digital Service, go to usds.gov slash apply. And you can literally do it in 90 seconds. apply. And you can literally do it in 90 seconds. If your browser has autocomplete, it's like your name, email address, that kind of stuff, and a resume. So if you've got a resume ready, you just upload that guy. What happens then is, if you're a designer, designers look at your resume. If you're a product manager, product managers look at your resume. We actually do one sort of technical interview that's like, okay, how good of an engineer are you? Can you write some code? Um, and then if that goes well, then we'll do a followup technical interview and one emotional intelligence interview. You know, we don't want to hire jerks. It goes to a hiring committee that determines whether this person is minimally qualified. Okay. So it's, and then we're always hiring. We have sort of this rolling, it's not like we have batches. We're like, the application phase is always open. And it's fascinating because these folks could probably earn a little bit more money, although the government can pay up to $165,000 a year. That's not bad. So not a horrible salary. It's cheaper in D.C. than in San Francisco right now. And so we try to streamline the candidate experience and make sure it's not you know as governmenty as it as it often is when you're trying to join well especially after like yeah hiring at startups and knowing that what that experience is like yes very different yes let's go back to the facebook or yeah the tech in government how are you guys thinking about educating people in government about how, how, how the computers actually work? Yeah. So, you know, there's Jen Palka at code for America, which is an amazing nonprofit, uh, I think has said, and there's a lot of people who, who use this phrase that government is who shows up. And so there's a, you know, there's amazing amount of passionate people on Capitol Hill, uh, and throughout government. There's an amazing amount of passionate people on Capitol Hill and throughout government. But I'll give you one stat. HUD, Housing and Urban Development, has 8,000 plus employees. According to the statistics, the number of IT experts, like there's a job classification, 2210, blah, blah, blah. We'll just say IT people. The number of IT people under 30 at HUD is zero. So, you know, if you can get one good technical person to come in, it can make a huge difference. You can have a huge impact. And so, you know, a lot of the times you might have thousands of people on Capitol Hill, but, you know, they have to be experts on a bunch of stuff. Farm bill and, you know and all kinds of stuff. And so technology is not necessarily their core expertise. And so getting some technologists who are willing to come and say, this particular product is actually snake oil. Or we evaluated this and it looks great. Even if it's just the process of selecting a contractor, the dirty little secret is the government doesn't do as much work as the contractors who they bring on board to do stuff. And so if you get a bad contractor, or if you don't know what good looks like, because they write agile, agile, agile all over the request for procurement. Yeah, Scrum. I'm a certified Scrum Master 9000 or whatever it is, which I'm sure there's great. I'm not saying it's bad to be certified. Some of my best friends are Scrum Masters. Some of my best friends are Scrum Masters. That's right. But it is. I'm going to start using that line if you don't mind. But it's also the case that like for one procurement, we said, okay, instead of writing a pile of paper that says how good you are, why don't you submit some code to us? And we're going to have engineers actually grade the quality of your code. And so if you get better contractors, you get better results whenever the finished work product is done. And have you figured out a way to give someone a feedback loop that's fast enough that makes them feel like they're having an impact? Because all right say let's just say i'm like i'm amazing i'm the best software engineer at google i'm gonna go join hud am i not just gonna be pushing a rock up a hill for my entire career okay so there are definitely days where you feel like in government you're pushing a rock up a hill yeah uh we sometimes use the metaphor of paper cuts oh sure okay so so it took us four years to get access to slack for example um get permission to be able to use slack at least within our particular group um but every so often you have those breakthrough days where you're like oh we actually convinced this person that this policy doesn't help people and actually hurts people um or yeah i could i'm having the scale of the impact is large it's huge like if you can if you can shift the ship of state by one degree yeah that's tens of thousands of veterans who are getting benefits or tens of thousands of small businesses who are getting certified faster and more accurately and so yeah there's hard, but it is super deeply meaningful. And if you absorb a few of the paper cuts, you make it a little bit easier for the next person. So like if by the time they show up, they can get a good laptop on day one that has access to some modern tools. They're like, oh, you know what? Working for government's not that bad. I'll take the next three paper cuts and then the person behind me totally have an easier job that's great yeah i remember hearing that va story about like you need to like downgrade your version of acrobat to use this product it's so sad but so and i have to say like the one thing that i try to avoid and i've not done it well so far in this in this interview is giving more credit to our federal partners. Because what you find is people who know the right answer or who are deeply dedicated, committed, passionate, but for whatever reason don't always have the power to get the right answer to the right level or to push through some regulation or overcome some resistance. And so if our goal is to come in and find those amazing people who are trying their darndest to try to make sure that the right thing happens and give a little bit of extra wind beneath their wings, like that's a fantastic model because it's not like we're not the world experts on, you know, how this part of government works. We're also 180 people. So it's like you couldn't. Exactly. So, and that's why you know just being able to find the the leverage points where we can enable good things to happen and work with and collaborate with federal partners who are the true subject matter experts and the real like heroes in the story like that's when things really go well okay so sometimes you kind of like drop in and you're like a pm basically like making that happen okay gotcha all right there are a bunch of questions for you from the internet. We're going to just knock some out. Michael Wang asks, how does USDS decide whether to outsource something to a private company or build the software in-house? That's a great question because it goes back to this last thing we talked about. Fundamentally, that's going to be the federal partner that we work with that's making that decision. It's like, do you buy, do you build, can you use something open source or off the shelf, commercial technology? And so it's rarely the case that U.S. Digital Service is making that precise call. It's more like we might do a discovery sprint, dig into something for two weeks and be like, you know what, this off the shelf-shelf software-as-a-service product will work just fine for the 90% case. And then sometimes it's like, no, you have to build your own grants management software, but we'll help you find a good contractor or help vet them or help make sure that the contract is written well, those kinds of things. And so if you can just buy something commercially or repurpose some open source, like, great. You should not reinvent the wheel. But if you've got a really unique need, then U.S. Digital Service is there to try to help figure out, okay, how do we fill that with the minimum amount of work and money? Cool. All right. Next question. Spencer Clark asks, It would seem that the government is far behind private industries technology. To what extent is this true and what can be done about it? In addition to that, how should we gauge the progress of institutions like the USDS? That is such a good question. So I sometimes joke, and this is not intended to be a knock against, again, the amazing people who are trying their very best to make things happen in government. But I sometimes joke that government technology is frozen in 1995. And the reason that I pick that date is because bug bounties, which are just an idea of like, if I find a security hole, I'm going to alert a company and the company gives you money and says, thank you. Bug bounties were invented in 1995 by Netscapecape which was a browser that came before firefox for those of you who weren't who weren't born then yeah exactly and uh and then the federal government had never done bug bounties before 2016 so the defense digital service which is a amazing group of individuals at the pentagon uh ran something called Hack the Pentagon, and later hacked the Army, hacked the Air Force, hacked the Marines. They've done a ton of bug bounties. And it increases the security of our country in all kinds of different ways. It's cheaper, faster, you find more security holes. Bug bounties are fantastic. You look at your quiver of tools, it's a great tool. So that bug bounties were not put into place until like 2016. Now the government is sort of thinking more about vulnerability disclosure policies, bug bounties, that kind of stuff. Now we're kind of at a phase where I've seen even just in the three years that I've been in government, a lot of folks like, okay, how do I move to the cloud? How do I make sure that it's secure you know so if you think amazon web services was introduced in like 2006 ish if you can in three ish years go from 1995 to 2006 instead of going one year per year you're doing like three years per year so like if if and and again not to claim that that is all the work of the U.S. Digital Service, because there's amazing groups. There's 18F, which is a group in the General Services Administration. There's a ton of super leaning forward chief information officers, CIOs. So a whole bunch of people all collectively pushing the government means that, you know, if we're moving through bug bounties, through, you know, on-premises email onto people thinking about how do I move my stuff to the cloud, my gauge of progress is, hey, we're only 13 years behind instead of, you know, 23 years behind. And so that's pretty good progress from our standpoint. That seems awesome. And in particular, your progress. How do you rank yourself there? Yeah. I think the fact that the U.S. Deal Service is still here, we're still working on projects that matter, we're hiring, and we're able to have an impact. For me, if we've got good work to do, that's the primary measure of success that I care about. Okay, cool. Steven Sturgis asks, with GANs, General Adversarial Networks, getting more and more powerful, is the USDS thinking about the future of data authenticity? That is such a good question. And it makes me put my web spam hat on. So you can use a GAN to make a fake person that doesn't actually exist. And so a picture of someone that looks completely real, but is just invented by a computer, which is a huge problem for someone like spam. Cause you get AstroTurf comments and be like, I am Bob Smith. And here's a picture that doesn't look like any other, you haven't just stolen someone else's picture. So it makes it harder to figure out, is this comment authentic? And is this data authentic? Luckily, the profit motive to spam government, there is some, but primarily the sorts of spam that we've seen are things like fake comments on the FCC or various other places. The Wall Street Journal had a good article about that. So typically, the U.S. Digital Service is more like we're implementers. If there's a system or process that needs to be examined, we are happy to help. There's this amazing group called the Office of the Federal CIO. And they think more about policy. So what should the federal government data strategy look like? What should the federal cloud strategy look like? Those kinds of things. And so how much open data should people have? And so I think all of those are hugely important. Data authenticity, at least as far as with people spamming or creating fake data, is a little bit outside the scope of the kinds of things that we typically see. We do see more movement toward data interoperability. So that might be a way where you could be like, okay, this seems like fake data because it's like two standard deviations out from what the typical stuff seems like. So you could do those kinds of things. But we haven't, honestly, the kinds of problems we run into at the U.S. Digital Service are more like, here's a paper process. Can we make it electronic here's an electronic process but it sucks can we make it you know like private industry would do where you can do it on your phone and it's you know no no obvious glitches yeah um and there's so much work to be done just on that sort of before you hit bleeding edge gan stuff yeah that makes so much sense. We have another Google question. John Doherty asks, how difficult was it to communicate Google's algorithm changes and evolving SEO best practices without leaking new spam tactics? Oh man, good question from John. It was interesting because I would go to search conferences and a lot of Googlers would go to search conferences and we would pick up what are people talking about as far as black hat tips and tricks or like, what are they talking about on search forums and stuff like that? So we got a lot out of that participation. We would learn and then we had to be careful about how we communicated. But at a very high level, uh, my goal, and I think a lot of how Google communicated the goal was to say, look, here's where the puck is. Here's where the puck is going to be. Like move toward where the puck is going to be. Like make a site that works on, like we were saying, you need to have a mobile site, you know, way early before everybody realized mobile was going to be such a big thing. You need your site to be fast. You know need to think about you know do you are you practicing you know good design those sorts of things and so um it usually wasn't that hard because you're like look most sites if you do a site audit there's things where you could just say move toward this mountaintop yeah and you'll be good uh there were definitely a couple of signals or dimensions that I had to be careful about. Um, I talked to a, uh, a partner at YC on at demo day and they were sort of saying, I just have to be a hundred percent honest because there's like 5,000 founders. I can't keep them all in mind. And so like, as if you're honest, you don't know, you don't keep track of what you're saying. Uh, so there might be times when I could you know i i was i was i did my best to always be honest but i might you know frame things in a way that's like here's the positive way to talk about it and leave out you know and you could probably make some money in the short term doing it this way right but it historically wasn't too bad it wasn't that big of a deal okay um van man zero two five four totally a real person exactly totally legit i completely trust this comment how can smart tech folks better contribute to regulatory and policy discussions in government it's a great question i mean there's a lot of stuff happening at the federal level but there's also a lot of stuff happening at the state level and even down municipal city county sort of stuff so what i would say is you know show up show up to the city council meeting show up to the you know the state legislator and say i can help answer some policy questions uh there's a guy who literally was like buying dvds of the virginia state legislature and their transcripts and like getting them turned into, you know, actual transcripts and then just making that available to more people. And so there's like all these grassroots ways to like encourage people to understand how government works. The other thing I would say is like smart tech folks, you should run for office. Like we need people who like we don't have that many computer scientists who are elected officials especially at the federal level so like it's not you know it it's hard i'm sure but like it's it is a thing that is possible to do right uh and so um especially at the state level or at the federal level like you would be amazed how much of a difference it makes to just show up and be like hey I'm a resource if you want to hear about X, Y, or Z you know I'm kind of the world expert on this part so like if you have questions about whatever happy to help. Yeah cool I mean also not for nothing there are a bunch of government tech startups that have gone through YC based in DC and other places. You can do this in a for-profit way. And there's a whole new generation of contractors that are like, hey, we see a bunch of opportunities. So yes, you can go the non-profit route. You can go into government. You can offer your resources to free. You can be a consultant. But you can also form a company. People have started to on health care and there's so much you know redundant waste in there there's like a decade's worth or a generation's worth of stuff to be done there there's a bunch of stuff to be done in government as well yeah totally all right um ronak shah asks uh well they, Matt. Nice to hear you on the podcast. What's your best pitch to high-performing startups in the Bay Area to adopt more of a human-centered design? Says something that the government has been moving towards surprisingly well, but that fast-moving startups have neglected. There's this myth that the lore about Steve Jobs was always like, well, if I ask people what they want, they'll tell me they want faster horses instead of cars or something. And so, yes, there is room for the occasional fifth standard deviation genius who's like, I know they think they want this, but they really need this, an iPod or whatever. But most of us are not Steve Jobs. We're just not. And so if you talk to users, you can only get so far off base. Like, it's amazing to me, you know, I went to a someplace recently, and I was filling out the, you know, the register on the iPad and the lobby kind of thing. And they asked for an email address and but they don't have like the at sign you gotta go hunt down and press shift shift shift you know to find the at sign and it's just like watching a user doing the journey map seeing what the pain points are like people underestimate how important it is to be beloved like just goodwill like one of the things that people love the most about google was the logo. Right. And it's like, that's not hard to do, but it's like, it's worth putting a few people on coming up with cool, fun Pac-Man logos. You don't think it contributes to your bottom line, but, but it kind of does. Like whenever Zuckerberg got testified and grilled in front of Congress, the market cap went down by like $129 billion in one day day and i always had a hard time at google you know saying okay yes we should talk to webmasters and publishers and seos search engine optimizers but how do you know how many people should be allocated to that like it should be at least one right the first one helps but then you don't know how far you go until you get to diminishing returns so we always had a hard time quantifying like what is the value of goodwill and i think like losing 129 billion dollars in market cap in in one day is like one really good measure of goodwill about whether people like you or not and so like don't wait until the congressional hearings roll around but this is a dangerous conversation right because i think a lot of tech companies are like, oh, okay, how do I get out there more without offending the other side, right? So they're just like waiting through very carefully. It's like, oh, if I make, just to make it very simple, like if I make the right like me by allowing, you know, gun videos and whatever, gun has whatever, the left will hate me so like how do you do that so i would say yes there's like two percent of issues that might be hyper partisan and divide people and polarize people but there's like 98 percent of issues that are like i was literally trying to buy insurance the other day and there were i had two websites open and the first website was like okay step one we're gonna need you to make a login it's gonna be this password six to thirty characters the second website was like, okay, step one, we're going to need you to make a login. It's going to be this password, six to 30 characters. The second website was like, tell us your personal information. Tell us your credit card number. Which one do you think I gave my $400 worth of insurance money to? The second one that was like super easy and like no pain points. And you could literally see like one was like 1980s style static websites and the other one was like hero images you know and cool stuff so but design is not just what is pretty of course it's not it is thinking about the user and how to make sure that they have a good experience and i honestly think that is like a secret competitive advantage whenever you talk to you know a random company and they think about, you know, what is my net promoter score? And yes, you know, net promoter scores have their own issues. But like, if you're not thinking about how much your customers like you, you probably have a competitor who is thinking about that. Totally. It's an, I mean, it's a so much that it's a cliche at YC, but we're basically shove people out the door to go talk to their users. Yeah. Yeah, and we see that with search engine optimization as well. If you talk to five users and say, what would you type to find this page? Here's your problem, how would you type it? You will be radically surprised by the kind of words they use. Is it a USB drive, thumb drive, USB disk? This kind of stuff. If you've got a friend who's afraid to insert a USB drive into their computer, you've got to think about why are they afraid? What makes them afraid? What kind of words are they using? Do you have an opinion on the size of your data set? This is a constant debate among some folks. I feel like the first nine or ten people you talk to get you the biggest amount of value yeah the team that we have at veterans affairs has literally talked to 5 000 veterans now that's over a course of like four years right but i mean we we built one feature and it was um so if you've been discharged for like other than honorable reasons, so traumatic brain injury, PTSD, don't ask, don't tell, whatever. It's really hard to get your paper upgraded because you have to like, it depends on the service. You might have to fill out a form. You might have to send it to VA or DOD, Veterans Affairs or Department of Defense. What does paper upgraded mean? So that you can get an honorable discharge. Okay, gotcha. So that you can get an honorable discharge okay gotcha so that you're eligible for health benefits and all sorts of other stuff and uh and it was crazy because we launched it people love it and somebody was like well who told you to build this uh you know where does this fit into the the software development life cycle and the enterprise planning you know whatever and the answer was the veterans told us to build this yeah and so it took one person her name was natalie by the way taking the ball and pushing really hard and she got this amazing group of folks who helped her and uh and now that community of veterans has like a tool that they really want and it is it is amazing like yep the first 10 veterans you talk to are the most helpful, but the 5,000th will still help you make your product better. Super interesting. Yeah, I remember one time I was at a post office in Japan and they had a bunch of different grade glasses tied to the stand where you filled it out. I was like, this is so perfect. I was like, you would never think about it until you see the 400th person leave their glasses there. You're like, oh, this is what they want right here. Yes. And it's crazy to me that like there are some companies that people love. Yeah. You know, Vanguard or TiVo or pick your favorite. Right. And typically they love them because they delighted them in some way. Or it can just be like a lot of people like Google because it's just like I show up. them in some way or or it can just be like a lot of people like google because it's just like i show up it's always up i get the answers i need it's fast it is as relevant as i think humans can reasonably achieve or whatever and then i leave yeah and just the sheer like being able to deliver over deck you know two decades now a product that just works and then gets out of your way and doesn't annoy you doesn't show pop-up ads or whatever like that is a way to engender a lot of goodwill with people yeah yeah i mean just thoughtful is like so it doesn't have to be cute yeah to be thoughtful right whimsy is you know maybe good optional but yeah yeah but delight or just caring for the user is huge yeah all right adam hoffman asks what are legislators the government and the general populace populace most getting wrong in how they conceptualize the Internet? Oh, man, that is such a good question. I'm not sure I have a great answer. I mean, most people are not at the level of like Ted Stevens was where he was like, the Internet is just a series of tubes. You know, like people have a more sophisticated conceptualization. People have a more sophisticated conceptualization now. I think the internet is a huge big place and you've got everything from great actors to bad actors. A lot of the times, the kinds of times when people want to pass a law or something to forbid something on the internet, you can just say, well, what if somebody were doing it offline? How would you treat it? And a lot of the same metaphors apply. The other thing is like you don't need to specify the specific mechanism. You don't need to say you can fax something. Because if you bake into code or into law that this has to be faxed, that's going to affect things for the next 30 years until there's a new law that supersedes it. 30 years until there's a new law that supersedes it and so like baking in the idea of what you want but not hard coding the specific technologies that are used are a little more likely to make something evergreen so that it's just like the data can be electronically transmitted and then you don't care if it's via fax or chat or whatever you or protocol buffers or JSON. Whatever might fit, yeah. You're not hard coding something to a specific technology. I think that's probably the best I can offer on that one. Okay. All right, it makes sense. Next question. Rafael Ferreira asks, is it possible to live without Google? I think there are some interesting questions beneath this, though. So he says, how do you think Google affected people in searching for answers and content now that everything is just in one click that's such a good question because yeah people lived without google at least up until 1998 right then tens of thousands of years yeah um but now i've been to a restaurant up in toronto where uh they literally have a little indentation where you both put your phone in and then you put the wooden thing on the  It's like a Faraday cage kind of thing? Yeah. And it's like it tucks your phone away where you have to be present with the person. And it was hilarious because I went to a dinner that was at that restaurant. And like three or four times during dinner, I was like, oh, well, I can just look up, you know, when the Eiffel Tower was invented or whatever. But the food plate is sitting on the little, you know, phone holder. And so you're not able to get to your phone. But at the same time, I do think that we're a little more like I feel like my attention span has gone down. You know, you don't have time for boredom anymore. Instead, you just hop on Twitter. When has gone down you know you got you don't have time for boredom anymore instead you just hop on twitter when you have five minutes to waste twitter is a great way to waste 35 minutes you know i i see it oftentimes with friends like i mean i did it myself too like online dating as an example you you get in this like eternal optimization problem yeah um oftentimes you don't think like oh i have to do a full load out if i'm gonna load something else in here right but but you see people just like oh i can get someone who's like 10 more funny or like more attractive or something same with restaurants right yeah this place like it could be better right it could be a cooler phone holding thing well and it's strange to me that um you know there's somebody who just wrote a book called how to break up with your phone in 30 days oh okay so you start are you still doing that by the way i it failed horribly i tried that as a 30 day challenge i i still have my phone so i clearly didn't break up that much uh but just like i have been trying to spend a little more time being active on weekends instead of being on my computer all the time i've actually lost like five pounds doing that so i'm like yeah we could all step away and do a little forest bathing or you know that kind of thing as opposed to just like you spend three hours on the computer and then you're like what did i actually accomplish yep so um so i think this is kind of putting their finger right on the pulse which is like uh maybe the pendulum will swing the other way maybe we'll be a little bit more mindful and like okay i will do this thing with the computer and then i'll put the computer away and talk to a friend or you know visit with somebody hopefully we'll see we'll see yeah tbd meanwhile all the dark patterns in the world and all the infinite scrolls no way indicate no way yeah there yeah i did use like pie hole to block most of my time wasting sites okay so like i have to have you stuck to it do you like to open the browser on your phone and then i cheat do yeah so i like have to turn off wi-fi to like be able to access twitter now but you know it helps because then you're like you think at least for a second before you get back on there i like grayscale grayscale makes your phone terrible it's so boring you take a picture and you're like i don't know if it's a good picture or not yeah so and also just taking time off like you know i've gone away for like a week but off offline and it's shocking how quickly you can like batch process it all when but then when you think about it's like wait i probably spent like 10 hours a week in email. But then I just did a whole week of email in one hour. Yeah. Like, why am I refreshing this constant? Yeah, totally. It feels like, you know, with the latest version of the iPhone and with the latest version of Android, like the pendulum starting to swing the other way, like digital well-being, those sort of features. I think that's super cool. Yeah, it's exciting. Okay, so Tim Woods asks, which job was more fun and why? Oh, that is not fair. I love all my jobs. Okay, so at Google, you could get a haircut and oil change and do your laundry on site and see Colin Powell. I mean, it was a great place yeah it was a ton of fun the people were phenomenally talented um so on a sheer superficial fun level google's pretty fun um but i gotta say like working at the u.s digital service often hard often difficult difficult, often frustrating, off the charts meaningful. There's a lot of people who say happiness is not this hedonism kind of did you enjoy your day and how much candy did you eat. It's like did you work on something that you're going to feel good about on your deathbed kind of stuff. So they're radically different and I would not have been able to do the job at the US Digital Service without my time at Google and I'm incredibly grateful for it. bed kind of stuff yeah so they're radically different and i i would not have been able to do the job at the u.s digital service without my time at google and i'm incredibly grateful for it and uh and there's a ton of people work hard to make google a fun place and a you know a great place to work um but man the people at the u.S. Digital Service are folks who are just incredibly noble and will sacrifice and will wake up every day and try to sometimes push a rock up a hill. And a lot of days the rock just comes back down 90% of the way. So that kind of perseverance and seeing people willing to do that in order to try to make services work better for the American public, it is super inspiring. Fundamentally, they're just different though like say all else equal in some like crazy alternate reality where uh google salary and usds salary equalizes do you think there would be a swing because i mean purpose is it's super important right you see like even these people who like go for early retirement like they need to do something you have to do something with your time yeah do you think more you think it's really like a salary difference that draws people yeah People who go for early retirement, they need to do something. You have to do something with your time. Do you think it's really a salary difference that draws people in? Yeah, salary is part of it. I've heard people say, why on earth do you have to take a drug test, which you do if you want to join the US jail service, or why do I have to move to DC? The summers there are hot and humid and they suck. All good feedback. I'm like, if we can solve some of those problems we would solve those I hear from a lot a lot of people who are looking for more mission and purpose right now like if you think about you know the me too movement you know some of the stuff affecting the tech industry like people don't always feel good to admit which company they're working for now or they don't feel good to say yeah I'm just making a little you know a little bit more money for this particular billionaire. Or I'm adding infinite scrolling so that people spend more time in my game or my app or something like that. And so it is super interesting to me. If I go to a random conference like XOXO, which is a neat design conference, and I'm like, have you considered government service? The hit rate is incredibly high. It might not be the right time for that person. They might want to work at a different level of government or they might have certain political proclivities. But a large fraction of people are like, no, that's on my list at some point. Maybe I was talking to somebody earlier today who was like, for right now I need to earn a little more salary. But in two years or in four years I would talking to somebody earlier today who was like, for right now, I need to earn a little more salary. But in two years or in four years, I would love to do this. To the point where they were like, let me come shadow you for a little while. That's cool. And yeah. So it's really inspiring to see that, that a lot of folks are like, they... And if you think about it, there's folks have student loans you know who are a veteran or their mom or dad is a veteran like almost everybody interacts with the government and almost everybody sees ways that those interactions could be better well i mean as i told you before we started recording i just interacted with the uscis yeah i have some opinions about the product right and okay so a lot of folks are like i am not the world's 10x best engineer can i still contribute something to government and and as we were saying before you started recording like um a lot of the stuff that we do at the u.s digital service is not rocket science it's like hey show me the status of my claim online so i know do i need to wait two years for my disability claim or am i going to get helped in two months? And like, you know, adding a progress bar to see where you are in the process or making a form work on a phone. Like a lot of people have those skills. So if you're listening right now, like you can do, you know, like a six-month tour. You can get a leave if you're at a big company for six months and not have to you know give up all your stock options or stuff like that that's what i did i signed up for a six-month tour and that was three years ago and so we do practice commitment escalation full disclosure but it is also 100 the case that like you know there is good work to be done and you know two-thirds of trust in government according to mckinsey so maybe take it with a grain of salt and two-thirds i'm always scared when they it's such a round number but they say two-thirds of trust in government is driven by the interactions that you have with government so if you want people to trust government more and for it to function more effectively and efficiently and sort of regain trust in an important critical pillar of society you know consider a short tour nice okay that's my pitch i feel like we have to like wrap up on the point we got a couple more we're gonna knock it out we're good yeah of course um okay so uh snehan kekri asks what is matt's view of the ongoing debate about backdooring encryption for uh so-called in quotes, lawful interception? Fundamentally, I'm a technologist. I have a math degree. I have a computer science degree. I have a master's in computer science. I have a PGP. I have done the public key encryption. My technical assessment is that well, let me start answering in a slightly different way. A lot of the value that the U.S. Digital Service does is not within a specific silo, but looking at the seams between silos. Because maybe Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs don't talk to each other, and so it's when those service treatment records are transitioning from a service member to a veteran that things might get lost in translation or fall in between the cracks. And it's the same way with security. Like you can have a full frontal assault with a really great protected system that's, you know, really locked down. But if you have some little seam over here on the side, like a recovery method, that's not two factor authentication, that's actually just tied to your phone, then all somebody has to do a SIM swap and maybe socially engineer a customer support rep at pick your favorite carrier to maybe get access to your accounts and then drain your bank account or your blockchain wallet, whatever it is. So it is often not the case that it's the primary system that gets cracked. The hackers don't care about how elegant it is. They just want to get in. And so it's those seams where two systems join that things often, you know, where there's a problem. So as a technologist, I do not support having a backdoor in encryption. At the same time, that's my personal opinion. That's my personal technical assessment. But I'm also a government employee. And so there's processes in which, you know, people participate in making policy decisions. So if I'm looped in, that's going to be my point of view. You shouldn't have back doors because it represents a vulnerability where bad actors and criminals and all sorts of folks and other nation state governments would totally attack it. Um, but I also abide by whatever policy processes are run. So I say my best. I try to convince people of what i think uh but then when the policy decision gets made you know that's the policy decision and that's what party line yeah um has anyone asked you about breaking up tech companies uh only in a personal capacity okay uh no yeah although i will say so unexpected plug the the Federal Trade Commission is looking for a technology sort of coordinator who can basically bridge between two worlds and translate government to technology and back. And look at, you know, if a technology company is doing A, B, or C, you know, why are the potential reasons for that? You know, what is the business model and why would they structure things that way? If that's an area of interest to you, the FTC has an open application. I think I've tweeted about it recently. I'll try to retweet about it. That's a super interesting position where you could go in and just like I talked about having my opinions about encryption and how that might or might not affect policy, you could go in and say, here's my take, FTC, on this small company or this big company or this technology practice. And it's not necessarily an engineering kind of position. It might be like a product manager because those are the sorts of folks who often translate between the different worlds. So there's a bunch of places in government to slot in. There's also a group called Tech Congress that tries to bring technology people into Congress as staffers so that you can help translate policy and say, here's a good idea, here's a bad idea, be a sounding board for people within Congress. And so there's a bunch of ways to participate in those kinds of discussions. That's awesome. All right. Last time, what's a website if ways to participate in those kinds of discussions. That's awesome. All right. Last time. What's a website if someone wants a job? If you would like a job, please go to usds.gov slash apply. We will have actual people looking at your resumes. We could use engineers, product managers, designers, a lawyer, recruiters. Like if, if you are a person who can get to yes, and you are a person who can get to yes and you're a good bureaucracy hacker we would love to talk to you yeah cool thanks matt thanks so much for having me