 . Dramatic entrance. . That was easy. Easily pleasable crowd. We have a favor to ask of all of you guys out there. How many people follow Justin on Snapchat? All right, great. So Justin's not here. Oh, but there should be punishment for that. There should be punishment for that. So just send him a message. If everybody sends him a message right now, it's going to completely mess up his phone. So just a few hundred messages to Justin right now would be appreciated. We'll give you ten seconds to do that. I think Kassar says hi. Okay, so my name is Kassler Yunus. I'm one of the partners here. We don't have a clicker. Okay. Clickety-click. That's Kevin Hale. He's one of the other partners here at YC. One of the things that we do at YC, or one of the kind of core things we do at YC, is office hours. And there are three types of office hours we do in the program. The first is individual office hours where a partner will sit down with you and talk about a specific problem that the company has and really dive in deeply. And that's what we're going to emulate here on stage today. Most of the partners are using their own experience as being founders and as being engineers or whatever the problem might be to help kind of solve that problem. And one of the things that I say and a lot of the partners say is when I'm giving advice, I don't tell you or the companies that will be up here what they should do. I can only tell what I would do if I was in your position. And obviously, we're different people. The founders who are running companies are different from us, different contexts and different experiences. So it just ends up being a blueprint of how to solve from one, you know, from another person a problem. So anyways, individual office hours is something we do. We also do this thing called group office hours where multiple partners will sit together and then six or seven startups will sit together. We do them biweekly when you're in YC. And then the third type of office hours we do are external office hours. So we'll bring in Apple or we'll bring in Android to help with, you know with the app stores, et cetera. And so today we're emulating the first type. Now, a couple of key points here is this is kind of a bad example because we don't do them on stage in front of hundreds or thousands of people. So naturally this kind of presentation is slightly awkward for that reason. Number two is we tend to be pretty direct in office hours. And obviously doing it in front of a group of people is, is we're going to kind of temper that a little bit. And I also want to just in advance, thank the startups who are kind of brave enough out here to, to talk through the problems that they're having with us. Yeah. So thanks and apologies in advance. One thing to note, and apologies in advance. One thing to note, 90% of you guys out there volunteer to do office hours on stage with us. So I'm super delighted that you guys gave us the opportunity to look at all the ideas you're working on. And then the one last point is, these are not pitches. So we're going to try to avoid from going into what do you do and why is it so great. Much more in diving into a problem. We actually are doing a pitch section afterwards. So you'll see how that's different. That's office hours. Three companies that we picked today, we kind of did on a theme. This is a little bit different from other times that we've done this. All three companies are marketplace companies. And the reason we picked that is because they're very different kind of startup when you're working with them. So most companies, when you work with it, what you'll notice that like, it tends not to be a zero sum game. So they're usually in any space, there can be multiple winners. But in a marketplace kind of play, it tends to be one kind of company tends to end up dominating over everyone else. And the thing is, like, when you can make that happen, that can make you very, very large and very, very lucrative, and investors get very excited about marketplaces. It's a category that we see actually lots of different investment firms and people are very interested in very specifically. That being said, they work a little bit differently in terms of how you work with them, and it tends to be always kind of a similar kind of approach. You're trying to identify what's supply, what's demand, what side you're going to be working on. And so what you're going to see is this kind of thematic thing where all three of them, even though they're very different companies, they'll have very similar approaches in terms of how we ask questions, how we think about their problems, and how we should go from there. That's it. Let's rock and roll. First company is Traveling Spoon. Let's give them a hand. All right. Give them a warm welcome. Welcome. Thank you. I think the camera guys are now having a hissy fit. Oh, yeah. I see all the markers on the floor. They explicitly said don't move the chairs, and the first thing I do is move the chairs. Sorry. So tell us your names and tell us about what Traveling Spoon does. I'm Steph Lawrence. I'm Ashi Vale. We're the founders of Traveling Spoon. Traveling Spoon is a food and travel marketplace so we connect travelers with local authentic food experiences from meals to cooking classes to market tours, all with local people in their homes around the world. So I'm going to, let's say, Thailand, and then I would... How would I find about your website? How would I find that you exist, just as me going to Thailand? Welcome to our first challenge question. So a lot of our travelers hear about us through word-of-mouth right now, and finding the right channels is one of our challenges that we're excited to talk to you about. But right now, most of our travelers find out about us either through word of mouth, through press, or also through some of our partners. So we work with partners who are distributing supply like ours, so travel experiences. like ours, so travel experiences? So, the first questions I usually ask about a marketplace, I'm asking about sort of like what is the conditions of the two sides that you're trying to grow, and then how well are they being connected? So, like, what do you guys consider supply? What do you guys sort of consider demand? My instinct is the supply is the people who are offering meals inside of their homes, and then the demand is all the travelers that happens on there. What's the rate of growth for each one of those? So you're absolutely right. Our supply side consists of amazing hosts who give market tours, cooking classes, and meals. We have over 225 hosts now in 40 destinations in 20 countries. Fifty percent of that growth has happened through host referrals, and we've been growing the supply side of the marketplace 50 percent in the last six months on the supplies is there a reason you're in so many countries and so distributed because i mean if i guess why wouldn't you have chosen like a country like that's in cambodia and just say we're going to get a bunch of hosts there so if we're going to cambodia we're definitely going to get a match yeah it's great question. One of the first questions we got from every single investor we talked about at the beginning was this question of breadth versus depth. For us, where it came down to was that in the travel marketplace specifically, you really need to have some breadth to show relevance. So it was really hard for us to be... How so? Like, how did you came to that conclusion? A bunch of travelers said, like, I conclusion a bunch of travelers said like i won't use this website because you don't have 200 countries covered yeah no not that um so a lot of it came from our suppliers uh who would say you know we're sending travelers to cambodia vietnam thailand like we want experiences in all of those destinations so sometimes suppliers like some of our clients and partners that we're working with so we have channel partners um we sell directly through our website traveling spoon.com and then we sell through some channel partners as well so some of it was coming through our website, TravelingSpoon.com, and then we sell through some channel partners as well. So some of it was coming through our partners. Some of it was coming directly from our travelers who said, I traveled here and now I want to go to other places. Who are the partners? Tour operators, people who will plan two-week trips from start to finish. Then how is demand growing? What's that rate? Yeah, so demand, as a two-sided marketplace, one of the marketplace, one of the challenges is you have to pick. How fast is it growing? 30% month over month is our traveler side that's been going through. That's healthy. Ideally for a startup, you guys have been operating for how long? We launched our site a little less than a year ago. A little less than a year ago. At least 20%, but 30%, that's sort of growing. But then, that's just people signing up or people actually booking. No, that's revenue and travelers served. So travelers who have booked and then gone on complete experiences. There's a pie chart of where they're hearing about the product. How much is it these channels and how much is it word of mouth? So word of mouth is certainly a big part of direct growth and we're also working on advertising right now. Just a percentage. a big part of direct growth and we're also working on advertising right now. What percentage? 60% is direct and 40% is through our partners right now. So what are you guys most worried about? Finding the point at which travelers are making those experiences and planning their trips and booking with us. So how do we get in front of travelers at the point of their decision making process? How do you get to travelers at the point of the decision making process? So do you get to travelers at the point of the decision making process? So are the partners not good enough? Yeah, so we want to find more of the right partners. So we've started working with one partner who's serving almost 25% of our travelers right now, and we're trying to find more of them. So who are the right travel distribution partners that are supplying these kinds of experiences? How many travelers are we talking about here? Hundreds? Thousands? Thousands. Okay. I guess to me, like, the direct model doesn't – correct me if I'm wrong – the direct model doesn't make sense because, number one, like, if I'm traveling to Cambodia this year and maybe next year I travel to India, like, I have to remember your company. And the chance of that actually happening is really slim. One way to think about, or at least I think about applications, is they fall into two categories. Apps that you wake up, or products that you wake up every day and use. You open up Gmail, you open up Snapchat without thinking about opening those up. And then there's a second group of apps which fulfill some mental query that you have. So I'm going to, I need a restaurant. I look up Yelp. I need to address navigation, so I use Google Maps. So your product falls into the second category, but the problem is you so infrequently have that mental query, no one's going to remember it. That's the thing that makes me really nervous. It's like, this is not an activity that I'm doing many, many times. Uber has the advantage that you might have people go multiple times, even within a day. It's not brushing your teeth it's not riding an uber and that's definitely something that we we struggle with in terms of finding finding the right customers i mean our vision for the company so with that context yeah why not focus on channel partners because that's all they're doing yeah so we've drawn a lot of inspiration from airbnb as an example um our vision for the company is to be a brand and to be the brand for authentic meaning your vision for the company is grow and make tons of money. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Yeah. It's like, I created a really great brand. I'll push back a little bit. The mission is really important to us. We want to make a ton of money, but the mission is why we started the company and we want to. Just to interject there. I'm not, what Kevin isn't saying is like you just should be like money-hungry capitalists. That's not the takeaway. That's what the VCs keep saying. Yeah, but it's just a proxy for making sure that you're working on something that people actually want. So it's important that, you know, I think you can do both. Yeah. Just don't fool yourself and don't use that as rationalization for maybe an ineffective strategy. Yeah, fair enough. But I guess just to go back, why not direct? One thing that's promising is, see, there's this mix. You have all these partners. The thing is, like, you have all this word-of-mouth growth. What's the percentage, like, 60% coming from word-of-mouth? And then what's the percentage that have, like, done a second booking? We have 10% repeat travel in the last nine months. 10% repeat travel in the last nine months. That's even higher than I expected. So if you take that context of people are not going to remember your product for a while, for like many years, I think to me that just is like you have to work with channel partners because that's going to be the way that you that's what I would do. I don't know what you would choose you should do, but for me I'm thinking I got to get that consistent growth, word of mouth, and having a brand that people recall is very, it takes a long, long, long time. I mean, the kind of benchmark in which that people automatically remember you, like even Airbnb, even today has that problem. And Airbnb is like a lot bigger than your brand. We have one minute left. Here's the thing. I feel like... I thought we just started. One of the big things that you need to think about is, like, where are there, like, the most power-hungry, like, users on the system? The people, like, one, you're, like, working with channel partners, who does, like, active salesmen on your behalf, because you can't people that are gonna be both gonna talk about it. So are there power travelers, the people who are going back and forth to the same countries over and over again where it's like, every single time this is gonna be part of my experience that happens on there. And then does that sort of exist? Because otherwise it's just gonna be slow and steady. And so there's two types of companies that I get excited about because there's two paths to getting very, very huge. There's one that you have, like everyone glorifies as the startup that grows very, very quickly and shoots up and they become this sort of great success overnight. There's another kind where it's just like you do this solid sort of growth, but you figure out how do I make a company that's going to last for 20 years, right? And so the fact that you're focused on, it's like we care a lot about the mission that's set up on there. But the thing is like, what is the mission? It's like, it's the mission is like, I'm passionate about feeding other people's food. It's like, I'm passionate about like, helping these other people have some kind of income. I'm passionate about like, having people have an interesting travel experience. There's like yeah it's a lot cheaper but it's far more interesting as a result and i think that's like a similar idea that you need to have on here also going back early in the conversation about breadth versus depth i'm still not convinced the breadth uh strategy here is the prudent one only because um you can find channel partners. You can find local agencies that work just in Thailand who can be booking hundreds, if not thousands, of meals a week. That's where the business becomes powerful. And the reason I think that approach, that concentrated approach is better, is once you find those power users like Kevin was talking about, you can figure out, okay, this is what worked in Thailand. Let's figure out what's going to work in Myanmar. Let's figure out what's going to work in Myanmar. Let's figure out what's going to work in India, et cetera. And that's actually exactly what we're doing now, is focusing on Thailand specifically for that reason. So good. My wife's Thai. I'm biased. All right. Just like that, time is up. So with all companies, we're going to talk to all of them afterwards and just dive into more stuff. Well, thanks so much for the interview. Thank you. Thanks. Next company, Human Surge. What a name. Is that like a soft drink? My first question is how did you come up with that name? It's so delicious. Brainstorming on that. Yeah. Okay. Do you want to do a quick introduction of who you are and what the company does? Absolutely. My name is Luke. I'm CEO, co-founder of HumanSearch. It's a global emergency roster for humanitarian responders. And it's a marketplace bringing together eight workers around the globe and connect them with organizations responding to disasters or emergencies in real time on demand and to enable them to scale when needed. That sounds really lovely, Devi. Are you a non-profit? No, I'm a for-profit. We like to think of it as a social enterprise seeking social impact. But yeah, we founded the company as a for-profit. We like to think of it as a social enterprise seeking social impact. But yeah, we founded the company as a for-profit. We actually thought first to launch as a foundation or link up with non-governmental organization. But actually, the sector needs this kind of development of a platform. It needs a reiterative process. We need to go through more like a startup process. Just to make sure I understand, because you machine gunned a little bit of the description, is so a disaster happens, like a tsunami, I'm a non-profit, I Google, I need volunteers or helpers, and I land on your website, and I basically order help. And then you send volunteers based on the criteria I put in. Is that right? Partially, indeed. help and then you send volunteers based on the criteria put in is that right uh partially indeed uh what happens indeed when there's a major emergencies organizations respond and they scale to the operation but we're talking not volunteers we're talking remunerated professionals that work around the globe in crisis situations uh okay so i'm gonna stop you there so can i ask one question yeah yeah why Why a marketplace? Why isn't this just like, why don't you have, if you already have these people, why is this concept of a marketplace? They're struggling actually to scale operation. I've worked over at non-profit organizations and other organizations responded to these kind of emergencies. I've worked over a decade in the sector and I've experienced it firsthand. Either you're with an incomplete team, there are people missing on the team or you go for two, three months and they're asking you kindly if you want to stay because they didn't find a replacement for you. How does the business model work? So you have all these people signing up to volunteer. I take it you charge the non-profits for accessing that list. That's correct. The business model now is to get an annual fee annual subscription uh to access database search and you can search the platform is very much like you would search for hotel or flight nowadays so you just say okay i need a logistician with more than five years of experience has been in africa before speak french uh what have you know whatever is the criteria that you're looking for, and you'll see the top candidates that indeed recently confirmed that they're available. I think we should take a look at that. Now that we've asked the questions, we're going to do a UX review. Okay. I know you're like, I'm going second, I'm safe. No, you're not safe. We switched it up. Okay. We took a look at your website and what we decided to do was just basically we're going to go through what is the thing you most want to optimize? What's the thing that drives the core of your business? Your kind of website is very typical for lots of marketplace websites that I look at. It makes the same kinds of mistakes that a lot of them make. The first thing is I'm always interested in sort of like, how do I quickly understand sort of like what this company sort of does? And so like, I couldn't find the simple copy and paste sentence that was like on the regular website. I went to your about page. You have this thing on here. I noticed as I talked to you, you like to use lots of extra words to explain things on there. And to of extra words to explain things on there. To me, I'm just like, yeah, human search, they're like Mechanical Turk or AWS for volunteers for non-profits. You're like, no, not volunteers. They're renumerated professionals. I can't remember that. You're ruining my word of mouth. It's important. There's an important point there. It is hilarious, but it's also an important point, which is you don't want to use words that we but it's also an important point, which is you don't want to use words that we're putting up on the overhead right now because they're loaded. They mean a lot of different things to different people. So when you use a word like a single platform, platform can be like something that's in the water, or it can be like infrastructure. A platform can be many, many different things. So you might think as a founder who's trying to describe your company, I'm using clear words. You're not because those words can be interpreted in many different ways. The next thing I noticed is up in the upper left-hand corner, you got this like big label here that makes me not want to sign up. I'm just like, I have to deal with the disaster, right? Should I use this beta product? It's like, it should just say, don't try me. Right. So, the thing is like, I see so many companies that do this all the time. They put in beta, and here's what I thought was the best part about your website. Your FAQ, your very first question is like, why are we in beta? Which is, yeah. Which is, good question. But basically what you said in here? Which is, yeah. Which is a good question. But basically what you said in here is just like, hey, this is basically, we're still working on it, right? And we're going to be improving stuff. And if something goes wrong, let us know. So you have eight hashtags that are showing up on that. So I'm going to let you know that. But the thing is, like, every company, you're going to be constantly working on stuff. And then you have issues, you want them to let go. There's nothing about you being in beta. Like, all you're saying is, like, I want insurance for, like, if I make a mistake. And quite frankly, people are understanding of people, right? So the more you try to make yourself look like a faceless organization, the harder it's going to be for someone to be like, oh, whatever happens on there. All you can do is be responsive and make things work. Like enterprise, it's actually one of those things that is counterintuitive for a lot of people who are working on enterprise and B2B companies. They're just like, what if I make a mistake or things that happens on there? Be responsive, fix things really quickly. You're smart, you're creative, you'll figure all that stuff out. and the professionals, right? The thing is, like, the best thing that could ever possibly happen is that you have so much demand for your stuff on there, and then you figure that out. Like, that's the problem that you want to have. Do not ever be afraid of that. All right, all right. Okay, so let's go and do... Just a pause on this page. Before Kevin circled that call to action, it's not obvious what the call to action is. And that's a big deal. I think if you asked, you did a quick straw poll of the audience and you said, what am I supposed to click on? They wouldn't know. And one way you can do it is you just kind of squint and look at the page and try to figure out where do your eyes go. And they go to about four or five blue sections and logos at the bottom. It's just not obvious to work out really well. Even if you go to Airbnb or Uber or lots of different places, you see they're always optimized for one side of their marketplace. So what you need to decide is, what's the thing I most need to happen? And then optimize for that. That's for the professionals, finally. That would be our main target audience. Right. So my feeling is a lot self-serve is going to come for the professionals. It should be optimized for signing up the professionals and the volunteers. The organizations, that's what you're going to be signing up doing B2B. You're going out there. You're hitting the pavement to have that. That's going to be on a separate landing page. You can direct them that way. There's actually a second landing page indeed. If you go in here, then it would allow you immediately as a professional to register with your emails. We So one thing that is good about this landing page that I think folks can take away from that last page is that the imagery is very clear. You don't actually need to read any of the text to understand generally what the product is about. So you did that well. All right. I'm just going to go through this real quick. So what we're going to do is go through the process of signing up as an organization, doing the one thing that helps you make money. All right. So I clicked on that button, and I get to this page. And this page, this is the top half of the page. It's a big map. I don't know what else to do on here. If you scroll down, you see how many people join, a bunch of drop-downs, and then I see the pricing plans, a big gap. I scroll down. All right. Our call to actions are down here. So these are the things that you want me to click to. You make it really hard to get to them. Yeah. So if you're, if you're talking to somebody who's never used a product before, you're just asking a lot. They have to find that call to action on the first page and to scroll down at the bottom and then read, which most people don't, and then recognize select is the call to action. So let's go through here. Now one thing I noticed is obviously before I'm going to pay for a service like this, I kind of want to see how does the directory sort of work. I actually feel like your directory is basically going to be a search. This is not a typical search kind of interface with all these sort of drop downs. I can eventually figure it out and have it on there, but it's one of those things like it doesn't use affordances and it's one of those things where like i talk to people all the time where they're like people like i'm gonna build an interface that no one has ever seen before because i want to make my mark on the world and users usually go like i have no idea how the fuck to use this thing because i've never seen anything like it like if you want to be an artist you should be an artist an artist. It's a very different type of design. Okay, so let's go through here. I want to go through this as fast as possible. I do my first search. I get zero results. This is what you're relying on me to get to that select button. He's trying to set expectations right now. And then I scroll down, and you've got this button. We have a bunch of Spanish that starts talking to me. We're in beta. You're in beta. Right, right. Okay. All right. So I finally find something. It shows me a result. I go, great. I go through this and I finally find something. It shows me a result. I go, great. I go through this, and I hit this button. This button actually takes you to the sign-up page for registering as a professional instead of the organization. So this will take you down a really weird rabbit hole where you want to take them to somewhere else. And I didn't realize I was going to go to that until I read this stuff. That's below the call to action. All right, so read this stuff. That's below the call to action. Alright. So this is the form that you wanted them to go through. I didn't actually end up going through this when I threw the site on there. Dom's going to kill us. Okay. Really quick on here. There's a lot of stuff to go through the sign up on here. You go through this. There's this action that happens. There's this that explains it. I go through on here. There's all this information you ask me as a professional. And quite frankly, it was one of those things where I'm just like, how much money have I managed? I'm just like, I want to volunteer and help. Why won't you let me help? I get through here. These are kind of the main questions that you have that you show up on the site. I see this thing on there. I don't see the word volunteer, which is what I think I am. No, yeah, it's not for volunteers. And here's the thing. I would put them into a bucket. I get through here. It says, like, tell me an elevator pitch. It would be great if you gave me an example. So, like, I'm like, let me just get through this. Right? I get to this. This is technically the ending of this. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to do next. I eventually figure out that this is a link. Actually, I actually want to go back to this. The stuff that I need to know here, the only thing I care about, all that information that you collect on there, is actually what information does the nonprofit actually need? What's the minimum that they need to be convinced that there's a professional or volunteer? That's the information we collected here after talking with a bunch of recruiters to capture that core information that they look for when they scout for a professional indeed. That's the information that we capture in those first screens. We took some snapshots, but I think it looks better if you look on the real life. I think I would disagree. I think the big issue here isn't, and the point that Kevin's trying to drive home by showing all these steps is you're trying to tackle a lot as a very young company, trying to tackle a lot in terms of functionality and features. And I think that's maybe not the best strategy. Kevin said, if I want to, not as a volunteer, as a professional, if I just want to submit a little piece of information to get onto the site, there's so much I have to go over that I probably won't make it to the end. And that's a big problem for you because that means a big part of you don't have a marketplace. You don't have actually people who are in the directory. 1,200 people. 1,900 people started. 1,200 people completed the profile and confirmed their email. And we have over 100 people that have been contacted now by over 12 NGOs, so it's working. But indeed, and it's addressing actually an issue that all these organizations are struggling with. They're all managing this by themselves on an Excel sheet. So we're saying, okay, we'll just bring it online, on a platform. I totally get it. The whole thing is, I'd optimize for as many people. I actually would be like, hey, give me your name, give me your email address, and then tell me are you professional or are you a volunteer? Just grab that and then you send them all through the follow-up information later on. I'd just be harvesting names. The second thing is I want to make it so that those people are super impressed by the listing that it's happening on. So I wouldn't take it to chance that someone's going to search your database, which isn't fully completed or whatever, and be like, maybe there's going to be a resulting thing that's going to happen on it. It'd be like, look, do you need people within a month? Do you need people in this category? We have this many in that category, this many in this, this many in this. If you're interested in a stage indeed trying to work with these uh dozen organizations to get their feedback and see how they want to use this platform there are more functionalities that you know we're trying to define together with them to see how we can optimize it for them uh i guess uh it's an ongoing process yeah i appreciate the feedback yeah just just as we as we're out of time, they're signaling these maniacal signs in the backstage. Just a couple of quick points before we wrap up. We're showing, thank you for coming out and letting us work through your site. This is actually better than a lot of sites that are a year old or six months old. But it's used as an example. A lot of founders are focused on all these things in their companies, and they don't recognize that so many people, the first time they see your company is going to be through this. And so it's very important to make sure you as founders are showing your product to people who don't know what the company is. They make sure they understand what the landing page is, make sure they can get through that sign-up, because for every time that you tell somebody about your company, that is, you know, for every time that you tell somebody about your company, there's a thousand other people that are going to be hitting that website and maybe getting an incorrect understanding. And the stuff we do, it's not complicated. I just walk through the site. I just try to follow the path. And the thing is, I try to follow the path of, like, what's the fastest way that I can get to what I want or what I think you want from on there. And when you notice that it's super hard to get to that point, to like get to touchdown and win, then... Well, there is the lead. You didn't show it, but there's the lead homepage where you can just leave your email and say register, just email and register. That should totally be really obvious. But why not that be the site period? The homepage, yeah. Yeah, there isn't like this, don't let like big companies have all this crud that kind of builds up over time. When something isn't working, dump it and replace it with something. That's the nice thing about having a small company. Okay, I think we're way over time. Thanks so much for coming. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for coming. Everybody can register. Thank you. He said everyone can register. What happened to mine? I don't know what happened to yours. Okay. Last company. Power of you. Hi. Hi. We're not doing a UX review, don't we? I was listening to the laughter in the comments, and I was like, oh, God, this is going to happen. All right. Introduce yourself and tell us what your company does. My name is Keshav Malani. I'm the co-founder of Power of You. We help people take control of their data. I can't see anybody over there. We help people take control of their data and we're starting by monetizing this data through market research. So helping brands understand their consumers through actual behavior data rather than the claimed behavior data that they currently use. When you say you, you mean a consumer. Correct. And then brands are... Are a supply side. So I think one of the questions was from a demand. And so actually demand becomes our brands and supply is the data from consumers. So people like you and I and everybody here. This is like the thing everyone's worried that Google is doing. and everybody here. This is like the thing everyone's worried that Google is doing. They are doing it, but they don't sell first-person data or anything like that. I guess that brings us to the first question. Why would I want to do this as a consumer? It's already happening, to your point earlier, about Google. There's companies out there, Facebook, Google, and other companies actually all doing this for billions of dollars. They're helping us get something back. So I use Gmail. I love it. And I use it for free. And I want that. So in here, am I just getting money? Say that again? Why would I use it? I get Gmail in return. What do I get in return for you? You monetize it. So you do get paid money. How much can I make? We are monetizing at $15 to $65 per data instance. What is a data instance? So anytime your data is used for an insight for a brand. $15 to $65? Yes. How is that? How does that happen? That's how much, I mean, we're doing market research. So the average user that signs up to the platform, how much money are they making? They would, well, this is, so on average, because it's not, you only get paid if your data is used. So that's going to be about $35 if your data is used. So a year? A day? Every time. So, I mean, we're still, we just started monetizing six months ago, and so it's early data points. What percentage of total users are actually getting paid, and then how much have you paid out in the last six months? Okay, so percentage-wise, it's going to be about 8% people have already gotten paid. It's a matter of consolidation of people, the brands, and all that combination of things. And the amount that we've distributed back is about $3,000 already. So what's your biggest problem right now? Our biggest one is actually the sales cycle to brands. That's our biggest challenge. So what's your sales cycle look like? It can take anywhere from two months up to six months. And sometimes it drops out in that time. Do you have enough supply to entice the brands? That is something, yes. We do have enough supply in the areas that we're targeting heavily, so specifically UK and US. So if I'm whatever, Pepsi, and I come to Power of You, how much do I, what's my normal payout, what's a normal contract look like? So it's normally you come to me, right? Yeah, so I would love for Pepsi to come to me. Some people are starting to me, right? Yeah, so I would love for Pepsi to come to me. Some people are starting to come, which is awesome, because they see the value of the data and the whole laws around regulation and stuff. The base that we start off with is at $15,000 for a three-week project, where essentially the project is you would be bringing people on board, and we have the people that you are interested in, 18- to 25- olds in san francisco who watch at least i get 15 grand how many people do i get well what like what am i this would be anywhere from 100 to 200 people that would be in this project okay so you're worried about trying to build up your pipeline that happens on there so like how often are you closing new business uh so it's for, I mean, we have three clients right now that we're working with already. And how often are you trying to bring in new business? Well, it's an ongoing process because it takes so long to do it. But then we have these clients also renewing. On average, how long does it take? It's going to be at least six months. Great. And then how many people do you have potentially in the pipeline that you're like? months. Great. And then how many people do you have potentially in the pipeline that you're like? We have about eight people in the pipeline right now. Eight people. How many people are emailing a day? We're not emailing, well, probably I can tell you per week. We email at least three people per week. Wow, that is tiny. That is, that is, three, a whole three people? Because the problem, the problem, the challenge there is you have to get to the right person. And so to find the right person before you reach out to them. More specifically, you're identifying three decision makers. Exactly. So I'm going to just like, I'm still going to blow your head. You need to be contacting like 100 people a day. This is like the first thing that we start telling B2B companies right away. And that is, it's one of those things like, it takes six months, right? And let's say, for example, you're working on this stuff and you're trying to hit certain growth on there. That means everything that you do right now to get to that point, that helps you feed into what's going to happen into the future. The thing is, a lot of people get stuck on saying, yes, I need multiple touch points, but they keep overthinking what that touch point is. That means, so for example, a lot of them think the only touch points I have is definitely a key decision maker, it has to definitely be a meeting or whatever. But really, the first touch point should be a simple email to as many people as possible where it's just like, hi, I'm one of the founders of this, we're doing this and we're making this valuable. And what you're trying to find is low-hanging fruit. Those is low-hanging fruit, right? Those people where it's just like, they just get it, they understand it clicks and that happens on there. And the only way you're going to find low-hanging fruit is that you're doing this like shotgun approach. Yeah, like in sales, like the best lead is the one that hangs up on you because then you know, you don't have to dedicate any more time to it. Yeah. So at this phase of your company, isn't a lot of value in being very precise to find a specific brand and specific decision maker because you just want information from your customers about do they actually want this, both brands and consumers. Right. You want to be promiscuous at this stage. And the thing is, like, you don't, like, you're trying to predict, like, who I think the key decision makers are, which kind of company is going to like this. And it really is one of those things's like, I see this kind of company, they like us. I'm going to find a thousand other companies that's exactly like us. Yeah, you might find that hospitals or some random group that you never even considered are actually the people who are most responsive. And before you know it, those could be your first 100, 200 customers. So my task, if this was a real office hours, I'd be like, all right, three a day or three a week or whatever. That's not enough. What I want you to do is basically find a list of top Fortune 5000 companies and figure out how to email everyone that you think is in that position. There's also a sub-point there, which Kevin is making, which is the more companies or potential customers you email, the more you're going to have to go outside of your preconceived assumptions of what is an ideal customer. And just outside of your line of sight might actually be the truth. And I think there's many, many examples of startups which are very similar to huge companies but ultimately fail because they just didn't get that one iteration that's a little outside. So early on, you almost have to be very skeptical about your assumptions about what these brands and these customers want. And that's another reason why just doing high volume will get you learnings that you're not expecting. And your task from there then is, a lot of people say, I'm B2B, I'm enterprise. What numbers should I be tracking? Because I'm only going to be closing maybe one or two deals over a year or whatever happens on there. And it says all the numbers you're tracking is all the stuff about how effective you're being. I'm contacting 100 people a day. This is my response rate. This is my open rate. This is my click-through rate. These are the people I ask for a demo. This is how many meetings I've signed up. If you're going to compete against someone who's got a giant Salesforce team, you don't compete with them by going at one at a time You have to start to think through it. And the thing is, like, there's tons of technology now available to people doing outbound sales more than ever before. We fund tons of those companies now because we see that that's the future for how people are jump-starting businesses. Yep. Thank you. So you have your – that's one kind of problem. Okay. I was going to ask for another problem, but that's one type of problem. We'll do it quickly. One more. What of a problem. We'll do it quickly. One more. What's another thing that you're... It goes on the other side of the equation. Communicating what we're offering to consumers, to people better so that they don't freak out and they understand what we're doing. Here's the thing. You're looking for people who are like, I don't care. Yeah. Right? Yeah. I mean, I would do a lot of things for $65. I mean, I would do a lot of things for $65. I mean, if you can pay me $65. And I would just lead with that. It's like, look, you give this data, and you can make between this and this much money. And you don't have to do anything. Just connect all your stuff that happens on there, and it comes passively. Exactly. And that's the only story you need to tell. It's super simple. The thing is like, when I go to your website, you do not make that simple at all. You're like, look at all these areas of like dimensions and graphs. They don't care about the graphs. $65. Got it. Yeah. Okay. Definitely. I think we're out of time. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Yeah, sure. Okay. Yeah, you're on. Okay. Real quick takeaways. So marketplaces, identify supply, identify demand, see how the rate of growth is. Try to figure out where you're sort of constrained. If you're doing B2B stuff, work in mass. Yeah, work aggressively outside of your, and just try not to be too confident in your assumptions. One thing that you guys can see in these three very different companies, similar but different companies, is Kevin and I are just focused on what are the, as we said at the beginning, what are the bottlenecks to growth and really focusing on those. As a founder, there's a limitless amount of problems that you have to deal with and you have to work on. I implore you and we implore you, and the thing that we work on most at YC in the program is focusing on those things which are bottlenecks to growth. Because it's a nice true north. When you wake up in the morning, you know what you've got to work on. Rather than, oh, I have this company and all these different problems that I have to deal with, you can just focus on that one thing. But anyways, that's office hours. Thanks, guys. Thank you.