 All right. Hey, everyone. Today we have Adora Chung. She's a YC partner and co-founder of HomeJoy. Thank you. How's it going? Good. How are you? Good. All right. We're going to do some office hours questions from the internet. So let's go. Cool. So first question is from Topher Peterson. And he asks, how many users did you have when you applied to YC? And also, how much revenue had you generated? So when we applied to YC back in 2010, we were a company called at that time PathJoy, not HomeJoy. And we were a marketplace for online services. So we were trying to bring on typically offline services like tutoring, life coaching, therapy, and all these legal services online. And our thesis was this was the time to put it to video and we would be the ones to do it. And so when we applied, if I remember correctly, we had onboarded a lot of people for the supply side of stuff. So service providers, but had onboarded absolutely no one yet on the demand side. So we had obviously generated no revenue yet, but that's what we had when we applied. And this was 2010? 2010. Okay. And had you started a company before? No. I had previously worked at a company called Slide, and I ran product there, and we built Facebook apps. I started in 2007 when the Facebook platform just launched. Okay. And what made you want to start a startup? I think I've always knew that I wanted to create stuff and make stuff for the world. And it just was a matter of finding the right idea. And so after a couple of years at Slide, I decided it was the right timing also because my brother, who would be my co-founder, had just graduated college and I said hey you should just come out here let's work on stuff so we started working on stuff did you uh did you have any like I don't know apprehension about starting a company with your brother not really I think it's funny because my brother and I grew up kind of in separate worlds um so it's not like we were together all the time or knew each other if we were compatible working together. So it was a little of a trial and error in the beginning. But having a sibling, working with a sibling, you know you can trust them and they're not going to do anything horrible to you. And so I think there was just that initial layer of trust that was pretty good for us. Yeah. And also, I guess you were out here for only a couple years so you didn't totally have a network either exactly right yeah yeah so makes sense cool uh all right next question uh hotly asks how do you keep going if you can't raise any money so uh you just have to keep your personal burn really low and i would say just from experience where my brother and I weren't able to raise much money for two and a half, almost three years. And we were just able to just keep going in terms of trying to find users and stuff like that. You just got to be incredibly scrappy because obviously you can't afford to acquire any users. So which means, which is actually a good thing because it forces you to get out of your chair and you have to go talk to users because it's the only way that you can get them to use your product. And I think going through a period of not having enough cash to work in your startup helps you develop a lean mentality, which is good to keep moving forward if and when you raise money. Had you raised before YC? No, we hadn't. Okay. And had you raised before yc no we hadn't okay and then you raised like a hundred yeah we raised a hundred k around demo day yeah um and then use that for the next two and a half years hmm that's kind of that's amazing yes it was your own employees just the two of you uh it was just the two of us we you it was just the two of us we Yeah, it was just the two of us Wow. Yeah, okay cool It was cheap to live in Mountain View at that point. So it wasn't really yeah Well cheap relative around that time. It was about 900 bucks a month For like a one bedroom bath apart. See you took the white. How much was YC money at the time? It was I believe we got 15k So you took the Y, how much was the YC money at the time? It was, I believe we got 15K. So each your total? Total. Total. Okay. And then we raised a hundred K from someone else. And you made that last for two years? Two and a half years. Yeah. Wow. Impressive. Just didn't do much besides work on a start. There's another question that's like further the list but somewhat related to keeping going or quitting. So Alejandro Ruperti asks, how or when do you decide to walk away from something that you started? So that's a tough question. I think when you, I'm assuming he means the startup or an idea that you're working on. I think this is one of the things you actually have to think about before you start, which is, okay, great, this is an idea. Maybe you got some users, so and so forth. Before you even think about raising money, or especially hiring people, you should really think about, is this something you want to do for the next five, six, seven, 10 years? Because success is way down the road. And I think if you can't imagine yourself doing that, then that's not something you should jump into. But if it is, then certainly you should go for it. And then I think during your journey, your startup journey, if you ever start questioning yourself, am I in the right game or not? Then, yeah, I think it's important to always zoom out and reevaluate. But I wouldn't be doing it in the corner by yourself. I would always find a set of friends in the startup world, but also outside of the startup world to give you that perspective. And if that doesn't help, you can always find a coach to help you talk through that. And then if you do have raised money or you have employees, you do have responsibility to them or to your investors as well as to your employees. Which is not to say keep going because of that, but it's just to say you need to find a transitionary role or period in which you take care of all those duties. Did you struggle with that at Homejoy? No, I think we, no, not in particular. I think I just kept on going. I think there were times where we were like, are we working on the right idea or not? Aaron and I, my brother, who's my co-founder, we pivoted a dozen times before we got to Homejoy. And so, which was helpful. The fact that we pivoted that much was helpful in the sense that we learned how to push product out very, very fast, which was helpful when we finally got to the right idea. But certainly, each time you pivot, you sort of just think, maybe two more weeks. Maybe there's one more feature. Maybe if I just got one more user and things will take off. And so you just have to step back and always reevaluate that. How did you pivot 12? Because where you ended up from the initial application isn't that far. Did you like, isn't that crazy? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we started with marketplace for online services and it was just marketplace for an offline service, starting with cleaning and then eventually some other home services. Yeah. I don't, I, I, I don't know if, I'm not sure if that pathway could have been shortened or not. I do think we learned a lot along the way in terms of working with each other that really helped us make that take off at the time that we came to it. Do you remember what you did in between? Like, was there anything that was just like objectively crazy or terrible um there were a lot of terrible things i mean i i think i we also built at least i built over engineer a lot of things um because i thought it was cool to build some stuff um so after i'm not gonna remember all of them but um pathway it was a was trying to connect service providers with clients. When that didn't start working out, when we couldn't find enough clients for the service providers, we had all these service providers. So we started, we're like, what can we do with all these service providers? Well, they still needed clients. And we thought, OK, what if we just made it into Q&A site? So we had a Q&A site for a while. we just made it into Q&A site. So we had a Q&A site for a while. After a while, I think a lot of the service providers got a little tired of just creating essentially free content. Oh, they weren't getting paid. Okay. Yeah, they weren't getting paid for it. It was sort of kind of the pitch was, if you write all this content, then it'll help you develop your brand. Right, it's like marketing. Yeah, marketing. as a profile yeah marketing um and then it rolled into a bunch of content sites and then um and then it turned into basically um like a demand media type play and we weren't just i think by the time we rolled into that we're just like this is not going to be huge and we're not really into this so um let's just rethink the whole thing yeah oh to go back to your other ideas uh you said you applied with like a twitch type idea as well right no yeah so on my application i just reread it uh i applied with the marketplace for online services but there's a question on there which says your other ideas and my other idea literally is twitch um which is not to say that i made a mistake to not build it because i'm not quite sure i would have made that a huge thing it's just that it was just kind of funny for me to see that I made a mistake to not build it because I'm not quite sure I would have made that a huge thing. It's just that it was just kind of funny for me to see that. You literally just wrote like video game streaming. No, it was just watching people play games and checking in and commenting and doing all these things. Kind of like ESPN for games, essentially. And the reason how I came up with with idea was because i was always watching my brother play games and he would also then go on youtube and watch other people play games and i'm just like that's so weird to me but he was doing it and like a bunch of other people were doing it was like okay there's something here yeah um and uh but the thing is i think i'm not really into games that much and so i'm not quite sure that would have, I'm pretty confident it wouldn't have worked out. Right. Yeah. It may have been a little early as well. At that point. Yeah. A lot of streaming was, yeah. Yeah. Not there yet. Cool. All right. Let's go to the next question. Um, Chris Mel any other international market, from the customer perspective, there wasn't that much of a difference. You have a dirty home and you need to get it cleaned, so on and so forth. From the cleaning professional side, the service provider side, there are some differences there in terms of, you know, where do people find jobs? In the U.S., it's Craigslist. In other places, in other markets, it's something else. So there are those kind of differences that we had to learn about. But I wouldn't say they were super major. So there is how to acquire service providers. There are maybe unique channels to acquire customers in each one of the local markets. There was things just like weather, traffic, like where are the traffic jams, public transit, how are people actually going to go from house to house, and that had to be all baked into the scheduling stuff. So anyway, going back to the Canadian point, it's not that, there was nothing super special about Canada itself. It's just the fact that it's another market that we went into. And then we also launched in the Europe as well, Berlin, Paris, and London. And similar to that, there are some locale differences and obviously language differences as well. But nothing super major. So yeah, what are your pro tips then? Like if I'm expanding to, I think Canada is like very close to the US, but if I'm expanding to Europe, what are your pro tips? For that is I'd go to the market and identify the opportunity first. Go talk to potential users. For us, we're a marketplace, so it had to the market and identify the opportunity first, go talk to potential users. For us, we're a marketplace, so it had to be both sides of the users. And there were some markets where we looked at, and I can't recall exactly the right cities, but that we decided just not to enter because we didn't think there was enough demand or supply there for us to make an impact. But once you do that, then the other thing is, if you're launching a ton of these cities is to find somebody who's hopefully done this before. And we call them what we call them was the city launcher. And so this person going to the market, find the first few customer or find the first few service providers, first few cleaning professionals. And then we would match them with the customers. And there was kind of like a manual back and forth going on to get the supply and demand running. And then if it worked out, then we would find a city manager. We would hire a full-time city manager to run the operations and be in charge of the P&L there. And I think sort of that playbook, that's been played out now. And so a lot of startups have, I think, of that playbook that's been played out now. Um, and so a lot of startups have, have, uh, I think execute on this well. Um, so I think that's a pretty good framework. Okay. Okay, cool. Um, so another question related to kind of like getting started, uh, when you're, when you're small, uh, Yaha Elamrani asks, how do I work on culture or, or do I even work on culture in the very early stage when I'm just building a team and a product. So the number one thing about working on a startup is finding the right co-founders. And finding your co-founder is pretty much setting the culture because it is how you work with that person is going to parlay into probably how you work with other people. So I don't think it's like you need a handbook and write out your core values and all these things right away. I think it's much more important to know if your startup is going to survive or not. So how do you get your users? Uh, how am I going to make my first buck? Um, I do think once you start hiring your first few employees, then that is an important time to try to figure out, to try to articulate that thing so that one you're hiring the right people um but two there are some like the people coming in yeah have some expectation of how things are going to be run how did you guys figure it out because there's like there's so much unspoken with siblings yes like how do you determine what what's part of the company culture and what's just like you guys that's a good question we wrote out our core values at some point we had five or six of them um and that's the way we that's the framework we chose in which a lot of companies choose i think um but in the beginning both of us would interview uh everybody and then we would actively talk about it like is this the right person would they work with us well and so and so forth um and then go from there okay so kind of just like seeing if the person's a good fit rather than like explicitly writing all the values down yes early days in the early days yes we eventually wrote all the values down um but i think in the beginning we were just looking for smart people who were going to work hard, who wanted to help cleaning professionals get work. Yeah. And we're into the mission of the company. Okay, cool. So another Homejoy question. Adam Sanders asks, what was the best decision you made for Homejoy? So I think starting the company, obviously, I don't regret it at all. We were able to bring on a great crew of people to work together. And so what I am most happy about and was most passionate about was the fact that we created a platform that created work for people who needed the work as well as did a service for people who were busy. And, you know, having a clean home is one of those things that it's hard to say, it's hard to articulate why, but when you have a clean home, you're just happier and you're more relaxed. And so after a busy day of work, it's nice to be able to go home and just not have to clean it. So I think those two things. So starting that company, I'm proud of that. And yeah, like I said, I think our team was a great group of people who really cared and I would take nothing back to, um, for that. Yeah. Cool. Uh, next question. Ujwal Chahan asks, uh, would love to know what's the one thing, uh, she, you would do differently in hindsight if you were to start over again. And I think that's like home joy and life context. Yes. Um, so, okay. So with home joy, uh, there are so many things that I could have done a lot better. But if I had to aggregate a lot of them into kind of like one concept, like a bucket, a bucket, it would be, I would have prioritized, I would have prioritized union economics much earlier in our, in, in the, in our company. So by that, I mean, when, when you're building a marketplace, you're always in this constant battle of trying to figure out how to allocate resources between growth, user experience, and Unique Economics. And so what we did was, we obviously heavily worked on all three of those things, but if you had to make me stack rank those three, user experience and growth came before Unique Economics. user experience and growth came before unieconomics. So this makes sense if, and only really if, there is one ample funding available and what I would think three other things. So one is there are strong network effects, really strong network effects. Or two, there are strong network effects, really strong network effects, or two, there are strong economies of scale, or three, there is a clear first mover advantage. So one of those and ample funding, or a combination of those last three that I said, strong network effects, economies of scale, and first mover advantage. But in any case, in the cleaning space, it turns out that there are some of those there, but not to the extent of Uber or Airbnb. opportunity in hindsight to have a much slower growth model and still maybe came out at top, on, you know, winning in the long term. And so, like I said, in hindsight, had I known about, had I foreseen what the dynamics, the funding dynamics would have been when we needed to raise money, I would have certainly made the decision to at least equalize and put equal effort into those three things, growth, user experience, and economics, if not had prioritized that much even higher. When you're advising YC companies, do you kind of have a rule of thumb? I mean, every company is different, but say there was a company similar to Homejoy. Yes. Saying like, you should be operating at like a whatever, like X percent margin to be in a good spot. Finding a particular, there's no constant margin you should be at. It's really dependent on the local market, I think, and the prices you can actually bear. But I do emphasize unique economics and user experience above growth. I think unless in some very odd scenario, which there are very few that, like I said, there are really strong network effects and that I think you can potentially raise a lot of money to just drive through some not so great unique economics. But in general, I don't think that's really the case. Yeah, those are usually the catastrophic failures. Yes. All right, next question. Nikita Budikov asks, what are some unique data science and machine learning challenges you faced at HomeJoy? So I think some of the cool things we worked on, well, there are a lot of things, but maybe I'll list three. The top three, the first three that come to my mind. One is we had to create a lot of prediction models for demand so that we knew how much supply to onboard so that supply and demand weren't out of whack. They're always, almost always out of equilibrium, out of whack, but you don't want it to be too much imbalanced. Another one we worked on is we did a lot of analysis on customers and finding out which kind of customers were the best for us in terms of lifetime value. And so we figured out things like we should be targeting pet owners, for example. They were like two to three X more valuable than regular, all things equal than regular customers. And then finally, one of the more difficult challenges was scheduling when you have thousands and thousands of cleaning a day and you have references on both sides of the marketplace as well as things like transit transit issues and you don't want people traveling too far from one house to another and so on so forth that was a difficult challenge the way to solve cool uh next question alejandro reperty asks from Tim Ferriss, how has a failure or apparent failure set you up for a later success? you should be honest with yourself and and know what you learned from it and so i mean today i advise i help a lot of startups out and so i think um the previous things that didn't work out for me it provides a really strong foundation and a basis of how i can help people um but i always caveat that every time i help somebody i always think okay what is the situation they're in? It never is going to be a copy and paste from my experiences. And so I always think about that first and foremost. And that's what I tell most people when they get advice from people, especially if they're going around to way too many people, is that you are your own situation and you and and people will give you potentially directionally correct advice but that's just directionally in the right direction not like like i said it's not a complete one-to-one mapping yeah um and so you always should be taking that into account yeah it's difficult and it messes with your confidence if you take advice from too many people especially when they're from all over the market like if i was starting a homejoy type company now and i talked to you yeah i think i would take your advice yeah but just some random other startup founder it's like why yeah you know yeah i know you must talk to so many founders that yeah start uh coming with patterns in your head of i mean that's like kind of the yc thing too right it's like just pattern matching. Yeah. And unfortunately, so many of the like pieces of advice just sound trite after a while. Yes. Because it's tweetable. But in reality, it's kind of like all about the nuance behind the scenes. Right. Yeah. So, yeah. I mean, you can tell like culture is important or whatever. Go talk to users. There's so many ways to say that. Stop burning money so fast um yeah there's yeah and so all of these things are just like at the end of the day like you have to build the thing yourself and you have to have some confidence because like taste matters a lot in your company and your product and if you don't have your own opinion like i don't know how you're going to get through it yes i agree um which is yeah i mean obviously you develop that but over time you're like you're trying out 12 13 different products before you get to like pivot around into it um actually i did i did want to go back because this was about like uh so something a failure for a later success i wanted to talk about you doing your phd yes as well um because i think it's also interesting to people who yeah um would you regard that as a failure i would regard that not as a failure but as time sometimes i wish i had that time to get back and i could have been working on creating things instead of you know um, um, creating, I don't know, economic models and, uh, being a data monkey and, you know, trying to do simulations and stuff like that on my, all my fancy, fancy, very academic models. Um, and so, but, um, but yeah, I, I spent right after I graduated from undergrad. Um, I, you know, I actually got a degree in computer science and didn't, I come from South Carolina and there, for whatever reason, you know, your choices are a little limited in terms of what you're exposed to. So I was never exposed to Silicon Valley, was never exposed to tech startups or any of these things. So by the time I was like 20, I just didn't even know that existed yet. And so the thing I decided to do, because I didn't want to work at a big company as a code monkey, was to go get a PhD in economics, which sounds weird, but I was doing some engineering work for an econ professor. And so I fell deeply in love with the idea of becoming an econ professor. Fun. Yeah. I mean, yeah, like I think it could be fun, but I generate a lot more meaning and value doing what I'm doing today. Yeah. Value. Definitely. Meaning. I don't know. People like make their own meaning for me personally, that I have no qualms with people who decide to become econ professors. Right, yeah, totally. Question not on the list. Side projects. Are you building side projects right now to keep that product building, I don't know, gene muscle working? Yeah, I started working. This is one of the things, because I'm not working a startup i start a lot of things i see something cool and i just like start working on it and then um but so one of the things i'm trying to build a tap right now really um yeah on ethereum um and just playing around with solidity and all these things uh we're starting to invest in a lot of the crypto blockchain startups now and so i think it's really important that I truly understand how this stuff is built. So I'm doing that and nothing else major besides that. But I'm always tinkering around with something. It's always tough. I have the same itch and I desperately only want to complete things. I hate letting things die on the vine. But it's hard because I'm equally curious. And just want to hack away for a weekend and see what happens. Well, what's the last thing you've hacked on? I put something out this week. It's like auto-transcribing podcasts. Oh, that's right. And you put some Hacker News. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Speaking of unit economics, I be like committing the mortal sin of like selling a dollar for 80 cents oh because you still have a human doing it yeah fixing like the little stuff yeah got it so i have to figure out like either full-time employees or uh mechanical turk which i've never gotten good results from uh at scale actually like at a scale a little bit larger than we're at right now i could have someone full-time like fixing podcasts yeah um but right now it's a lot of like craig waking up at five in the morning and being like this doesn't cost me anything because i'm doing it i've like created my own five dollar an hour job. So dumb. Raise prices. You can always raise prices. I think that's a fear that I personally have but should be okay with breaking. I knew that if I started too high I wouldn't get enough customers. Fortunately I didn't give away any free demos. If I gave any free demos. If I gave away free demos, because we hit one on HN, and if we were doing free demos, it would have been a disaster. Yeah. This is a very actual classical error, not to pounce on you or anything. No, it's fine. I mean, I did it myself at Homejoy, too, which is to get the first few users in the door, people tend to want to discount. And then what you haven't done yet, but is that you continue discounting. And then all of a sudden you have a stream of just the worst kind of users because the people that come in just because of the discount are super value driven. So they want the cheapest thing and they want the 10 star service for what you can only provide at maximum is a five star service. And they always drive the most customer service costs. for what you can only provide at maximum as a five-star service. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And they always drive the most customer service costs, and it's just a big headache. So it's maybe okay to get the first few in, because what they're hopefully also giving you in return is a lot of feedback. So you're improving on the experience and stuff like that. But at some point, you definitely don't want to be scaling that. Definitely not. Yeah. No, I mean and stuff like that but at some point you definitely don't want to be scaling that uh definitely not yeah no i mean it's only like a couple handful right now so it's like totally fine um but i mean i just honestly didn't know if people wanted it and that's why i was like this would be an easy way to find out uh it turns out they do and it's a lot of work yes podcasting is getting really popular it's crazy and the need to edit a lot of them is pretty high too. Yeah. No, well, we were doing the, not to make this a Craig podcast, but we were doing the text-based audio editor for a while. And I found that I was using it a little bit and I was using the other ones like Descript and there are some competitors, but I'm still so much more proficient in Premiere. But at the end of the day, I still wanted transcripts. And so I was like, this is a product I want. And yeah, it turns out. So the idea is it's a transcripts and then you can also edit it based on the transcripts? Oh, you've moved that one. We've killed the editing. Because it's really interesting on the technical side. But yeah, like i said like it wasn't the product that i needed anymore got it um which is i'm a little rare because i do video as well okay um but yeah it's a lot more helpful like when you put it on the blog that there's a transcript there as well to follow and look back on and probably to search through as well i imagine yeah so it's kind of it's multifaceted so it's's like SEO for sure. Sharing because we can generate little quotes and stuff. Some people only read podcasts, which is like as personally as like an affront, but that's fine. Are you a two X listener? No. Really? I've done it before, but I was like, I used to do it and then i realized i was talking faster yes because i mean we've talked about this before but like you and i will like be at home all day and not talk to someone i had a moment where i was like i've only listened to podcasts today and i'm at a coffee shop talking to the like the host at like 2x speed yeah there's if you listen if all you do all day is just listen to things at 2x and then you go talk to somebody you always wonder it's like why are you talking so slow they're talking normal speed but it's like you are talking unbearably slow right now speed up i've actually uh met a couple podcasters in person after i was listening to them at 2x speed i was like oh my god you're so slow and then you get really used to listening to podcasters so you know it like Joe Rogan. I've heard so many of his episodes that I basically know the anecdote that's coming up. And so I'm like, skip, skip, skip. But anyway, yeah, podcasting is awesome. TBD, how much money there is in it. Because it's all like content marketing or a lot of content marketing right now. Yes, yeah, I agree. is in it yes because it's all like content marketing or a lot of content marketing right now yes yeah i agree yeah uh cool all right uh next question um cmac f i'm not gonna pronounce that last name uh asks what are the best practices when uh reaching out cold to an investor really easy keep it short um say what you want to say if If you can do it in two to three sentences and then ask a specific question, which is not, can we get coffee? Which is actually something that they can answer and actually help you with. And that's not to say that that investor would never meet with you. It's just, you have to remember these investors are getting lots of these emails and they're also need, like their job is to take meetings from people that are interviewing them. So all these warm intros. And so you just need to figure out a way to develop a relationship with that person. And one way is just to have a back and forth over email over time. And then when it becomes interesting enough, basically when I get to the point where I'm writing three or four paragraphs back, I'm like, okay, never mind. I get to the point where I'm writing three or four paragraphs back I'm like okay never mind let's just get either get on the phone or meet in person because this is now gotten to the point where I'd like to actually talk to you for a long bit yeah and also investors hang out on the same sites that hackers hang out on and like product people hang out on so if you're out there making stuff you can get attention oh yeah on yeah reddit hack news all these places yeah they're all there like they hang out on product hunt it's like you don't have to just like pretend the only email is a way to get their attention yes because this is like one of those things that's like you you make up these like little excuses for yourself where like adora didn't reply to my email it's never gonna work out you know that's just cheating. Right. I agree. Totally. All right. Next question from a name with a bunch of emoji in it. I think it says Riley Soros. They ask, is Uber for X still a thing people would invest in in the US? So I definitely think so. I mean, we've seen the scooter craze going on now um i think that when i think about uber for x i think it's push a button and a bunch of logistically hard operational things happen in the back and then you get a product and service like within a few seconds a few minutes within a day or something like that um and that to me shouts convenience and i think a lot of people want convenience that's of people want convenience. That's something people want. And so I think there's always products and services to be built in the Uber for X realm. And I think that, yes, there's definitely overall less money being put into it than, say, four to five years ago. And that's a result of investors understanding and learning about what these business models look like. The fact that they're probably most of these businesses grow a little bit slower so that you can build up a great user experience and understand, they understand that you need economics much better as well. And so there's, I would say not as much hype, but there's certainly if you're growing and you have good retention and good engagement, you certainly can probably get funded has there been a a large success that was kind of like a follow-on company in this way like we're kind of like a copycat or just like a derivative i'm trying to think what's an example i'm trying to i mean you know like uh well so using the uber for x example then you're just like oh we're gonna you know make this thing because it's just like uber oh i mean when uber came out there were a lot of these like uber for cookies and yeah this is like i know there are a million failures i've been to hackathon oh we're looking for uh success yeah um i mean there i wouldn't group all this into kind of the sharing economy stuff as well. So if you look at mobility, there's cars, bikes, scooters now, e-bikes. Outside of that, let's see. Yeah, that's a good question. For some reason, nothing jumps in my mind I'm sure it exists but I think it's just not like a dominant player like something massive yeah I don't I can't think of anything massive except for let's see let's if we go to Asia and China all the food delivery stuff is rocking and rolling there. Same here, actually. I mean, there's Uber Eats and DoorDash. So I think that's working well. There's some storage companies that may do well. But yeah, yeah. There's nothing to the, I mean, if we try to compare it to Uber, I think it's going to be very hard. Right. But actually, I'm, actually, I'm still wrong because Google wasn't the first search engine. It's definitely not about being first. Yes, exactly. So, yeah, never mind. All right, next question is Fedor Peretsky. They ask, has YC's views or have YC's views changed on cryptocurrency, blockchain-related startups since Coinbase is a YC's views or have YC's views changed on cryptocurrency, blockchain-related startups since Coinbase and Coinbase's YC company? Right. So has it changed? I think we've learned a lot more just because there's more activity in this space. I think every partner probably has a different viewpoint of it. For me personally, I'm super excited about what's going on. I think in general, people should be excited when a lot of smart people are working on something diligently. And I think there's a lot of tools and stuff like that still to be built for this to take off. But if I try to like game out how far this could go, I just think the possibilities are limitless. So the thing that really excites, the stuff that excites me are when you look at countries, cities or countries in which there are bad currencies or just bad financial infrastructure. bad currencies or just bad financial infrastructure. I think these are obvious places where blockchain and crypto can help a lot and move them forward, if not even leapfrog maybe other countries. And then similarly in those countries usually there's also issues with like property rights and stuff like that. So I've talked to folks in Greece and places in South America where the concept of who owns land, like each piece of land is almost non-existent. It's somewhere in a drawer maybe in pencil and paper, but even then, who knows if that's real. And so I think if any of these countries or cities are serious about it, they could leapfrog centralized services and just put it onto the blockchain. And wouldn't it be cool if you do that not only... Well, one is just identifying who owns property. That would drive, I think, economic growth in itself because it would incentivize people to actually do stuff. But on top of that is increasing the number of transactions that can happen. So even in America, trying to buy property or exchange property is extremely hard. It's extremely expensive. And it seems to be unnecessarily so. And so anyway, I think land registries is an example of something I would be super excited about to see happen. Is that the DAP you're building? No. What I'm building is just something very simple i'm not is it just like the like you're building a blog yes almost tutorial almost exactly that sending myself fake tokens i mean it's on the yeah it's uh yeah um but the the thing that comes to mind for me with crypto and blockchain is I think there's a lot of skepticism because of what's being built right now. But I actually think that what's being built now are the right things being built in the sense that, one, it's such a new technology that there are still so many issues, potential security issues, and putting the wrong types of smart contracts on there. And so now you see a slew of consultants and also companies doing security audits. And we've just invested in a couple of companies that are building AI to help ensure better security and ensure that the economies don't go out of whack and stuff like that. And so I think doing playful things and building playful apps is actually the right way to help develop the ecosystem because you don't want, I think, super serious things on there without all of this stuff being built already. One of the things that we talked about earlier was I think for this to go anywhere as well, we need UX people and product people. Right now it is just way too hard for somebody to use these Dapps. Do you know what the DAUs for Dapps are? Try to guess. I'm guessing it's really small yeah um ten thousand wow okay that was pretty good i don't know the exact number now but the last time i read it was like around ten thousand really yeah well i just know like how much of a pain in the ass metamask is yes and got to install it and then you got to, you know, move money to it and all this stuff. So, yeah, I think that needs to be solved before this goes mainstream. But the nice thing is all these things are solvable. Yeah. It just needs to be built and with due time, it'll be built. And we're more than happy to help accelerate this by investing in startups who are building this stuff. And the other thing is also, I think, more of a PR and branding thing. I just think the word blockchain has been thrown around so many times that people don't fully understand what it means. For sure. And so there's a bit of an education. I sort of think that when it goes mainstream, we don't need to use the word blockchain per se. Just like we don't use the word database to explain. Facebook, yeah, no. My parents don't know what Ajax is. It's not important. Yes, exactly. You just need to tell them what it does. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Ultimately, it's the product. Yes. But I think with so many smart people working on it, it seems highly unlikely that something won't come out of it. Yeah, that's a hope. Cool. Probably related to that question. Manav asks, what type of companies is YC seeing more of for this batch? We've seen a lot more applications on the crypto and blockchain front. So super excited about that. applications on the crypto and blockchain front. So super excited about that. We continue to see more and more applications on AI, in particular machine learning and deep learning and the applications for it across so many fields now. And so that's exciting. I don't think we've seen anything where we've seen complete automation yet of anything really um but it's kind of cool that we're building tools and stuff like that to help doctors people in the field doing work and stuff like that and what else are we seeing biotech we're seeing lots of those which is exciting um particularly the intersection of software and biology um and then also we just launched our yc bio program which is um which all the companies go through the three-month program that that all the other startups go through um but it's targeted towards people or companies that are still in the lab research phase and so the and so we're and focused on what's on sub area right now, which is health span and longevity. Um, and so we've seen a lot of those and we're really excited about that. Do you have a strong opinion on how long you think you're going to live? Um, I don't know. I hope for a long time. Um, I would like to live over a hundred, I guess. Okay. Um, or whatever the current life expense expectancy is, which is lower than a hundred, 78 or something like that. Um, I mean, I try to do all the things to make sure I'm healthy, um, and sane. Um, but I've, you know, I don't, I don't do any drugs or anything to make myself go. No caloric restriction? Oh, so I mean, I've tried doing that, and I didn't notice any specific change other than like a little bit of weight loss. Yeah. But I actually go back and forth on that a little bit, trying it out. Oh, really? So I do the whole, like I've done in three six month spans um the whole 18 yeah don't eat for 18 hours um and and actually like the first week it's kind of hard it's just like probably any diet you go on it's like the first week is kind of hard but it's actually pretty simple yeah um and i haven't done the whole fast for like 48 hours thing though. Have you? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's fine. Like you, you feel better. You feel fine. You get used to it. I mean the first, like by the end of the first day, you really are starting to get hungry and then you push through it and then you could go like another day or two and be totally fine. Um, I mean, but also my body fat isn't like 1%. Right. So maybe if I was like that skinny, it would be different. Yeah. Uh, but yeah, I'm similar to you. Like I've tried everything out. I know when I do the, the intermittent fasting or whatever, I can be leaner. Yes. Uh, but the selling point is that you, you're going to live longer. So it's just hard to feel the difference. And ultimately with all this stuff, I'm just kind of like, man, you've got to live. I want to hang out with my friends and have a beer. I also want to make it to 100 over, but I don't know. We'll see. We've got some time. Yeah, I want to make it pretty far and still have an active mind. I think that's probably most important for most people is just having an active mind still. Yeah. Yeah. It seems like the further we can push the quality of life, the happier we're going to be overall. Because it's not really about like, yeah, a lot of people lose it well before 78. Right. So cool. All right. Next question. Yaha Elamrani asks, what are the best marketing strategies for um i think tactically speaking there are other things you can do content marketing which you're an expert in so maybe you can talk more about that um and there are all the tactical things if you're if you're a consumer product um and they're if people are coming to your website and no one's signing up or anything you know one of the things that this seems like counter to advice but is to just put a phone number on there um and uh people still want to call people still like to talk to people surprise i i never um installed the drift or intercom on a product until last year people use it all the time yeah i mean it should be obvious because it's like successful company yes they use it all the time yep yeah so having a chat on there putting a number on there um it's a it's actually a good thing because if no one's signing up at least you can talk to these people and figure out what it is that they want or what's going wrong um so finding just easy ways for people to contact you is also another way. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I would ditto the content marketing. I would say don't waste your time if you're not going to make something good. Because it's really easy to get on the content marketing treadmill and be like, oh, man, we just got to like bang out this stuff, put something out every week. And if you look at like the analytics on YC content, it's like a power law with like the the stuff that gets the most attention uh is definitely not linear and and even just the things i'm sure with you as well like the things you work on what like people talk to you about you're like dude i did that article in like two days and three years later you're talking to me about this thing um the ones with the least amount of effort you get the most views it's crazy i don't know yeah i mean maybe you should just write like silly pithy tweets and be a thought leader yeah do lists still work well because one of the top posts is that um essential advice uh i. Yeah, that works well. I mean, we couldn't replicate that, essential YC advice post, because that was an aggregation of posts over time. People like lists, people like book lists, but you also wanna think like, why are the people even reading it? like we can with with a lot of our content we could get more attention by interviewing like youtube celebrities but to what end yeah i was talking to someone who watches the channel and they were like oh that's cool like i like all your like science and tech videos like what's why combinator and it's like oh shit um so if you're like not getting them all the way through the door it's yeah especially when you're tiny and like you don't have a full-time person making stuff yes um so yeah i would just figure out like what actually works for you and like focus on doing a good job of it rather than just mailing it in. Sure. Because that, that stuff is, I've never had luck with. Yeah. Do you think that it's articles that work best? I guess maybe it's depending on the product or do you think podcasts, videos, like what form, what medium works? Yeah. Um, I think people still undervalue, uh, the ability to write clearly. There aren't that many people that can write well. So if you can get someone who can write well specifically in a niche and then get a channel to engage with it like HN, you can get a ton of traffic because people can consume the entirety, for the most part, consume the entirety of the content. Whereas with the podcast, like you have to be like hardcore like podcaster or YouTuber. YouTube works pretty well when we cut it up into clips. Right, right. But if you look at the retention, like it's like anything. Like there's a huge amount of drop off. Right. Whereas with the articles, it's easier to do. Right. But I find like I don't always have a great thing to write about and the podcast is a much easier way to like keep consistent um are there not to make this into a podcast about content marketing but this is to me intriguing are there like blogs or um like what companies do you feel like do content marketing really well? I would break it apart into different categories. Actually, I think not to blow YC's own trumpet, but I think PG did a great job. I think YC is actually one of the best content marketing companies ever, except they would never say that. But HN one of the best content marketing companies ever, except they would never say that. But like HN and PG essays are content marketing. Sure. I think on the companies, I think like 37 Signal Basecamp does a really good job. Those guys have like established themselves as like thought leaders, but also make content that's pretty relevant. And they're, they're gutsy enough to have an opinion, whereas a lot of people aren't. Sure. Strong opinions matter and probably get more views. Yeah, especially when it's contrarian. So they exist in the software space, but they've pushed pretty hard to be kind of independent. In a similar way, indie hackers did quite well for that. So I think that Stripe acquisition made a lot of sense, um, because people connect to Cortland. Sure. Um, I think, uh, yeah, Intercom has done a really good job. Um, but I, I mean, honestly, like I pay attention to a lot of people on YouTube because I think like for the most part, like Silicon Valley still doesn't understand how big it is and like just the amount of like pure traffic and consumption it's a rabbit hole it's insane i found myself watching some weird videos after two or three hours yeah yeah totally you're just like one after the next after the next after the next and you're like so we did a podcast with um casey neistat and like he gets more views a week than almost any tv show and you're just like, what? This guy like rides a boosted board around. And then you find out that he's like representing a significant percentage of boosted sales. Just this one dude in New York. And you know, he's super talented and that's like a lifetime of work and a ton of creative energy. But it works really well. Like if you can find someone like that um so yeah and i think also but then like on the seo side like i think nerd wallet has done a great job all right like they have all those like best credit card type things and it's not like spammy yeah so yeah uh we did a whole content marketing podcast actually oh we should uh with uh with um yeah first round andrews and horwitz. Yeah, so we're like the competitors. Oh, that's right. I wasn't coming up. That's good. All right. Next question. Yaha Elamrani asks, what would you say to a founder from a third world country where there is a big lack in tech talents and you can't compete with big corporations due to a lack of resources in terms of hiring? So the way to always get around this is to seem more exciting than these big corporations. And one way is, if you're technical, is to just build the product yourself and start getting users. And when you start growing and you start getting revenue, you can probably go poach these people. I always think that in a big company, there's always like a fellow entrepreneur in there somewhere, stuck somewhere. But if you're not technical, it's a little bit harder, but there are enough SaaS tools out there these days where like Weebly and all these things where you can just patch together, I think, something and get something out there and iterate a bit to the point where you can also get users and, and revenue. And I even see today like engineers, like real engineers, they're sort of embarrassed to do it, but they have to do it and they'll just like put up a Shopify site first. Yeah. And they totally hate it. Cause they're like like i can do this much better if i can customize it myself but i don't have to pay the fees but in reality like that's how you're going to get your first few users quickly um is doing that and so once you do that then again you can go through the same cycle of trying to go find people to join you with something that looks exciting. Yeah, I mean, I would encourage people with like sales aptitudes to get people to pay them. Because if you're good at sales, you're probably good at convincing people to think that your product is good before it exists. And only once they give you money do you know they really want it. I've made that mistake before. All right, Aspiring Angel asks, what's the best way for investors interested in startup uh cedar angel funding to get started and how does location affect that process um so i think these days it's really easy to get started i think one place you can go is we have a startup investor school that we held a few weeks back that um one of the partners here jeff ralston did an amazing program with it it's all on youtube and it's on youtube yeah and so i would watch all of those a couple times um and then another thing to do is there are like we said earlier there's a lot of online communities where people are making things. And so it's just start hanging out there and talking to founders and seeing how they think. And more importantly, if not most importantly, is using the products and figuring out, developing hypotheses on, is this going to get big? How could this get big? Where could this go? And then finally, just contacting the founders. Developing hypotheses on, is this going to get big? How could this get big? Where could this go? And then finally, just contacting the founders. I think founders, especially when they're starting off, no one's really talking to them that much. And so I think if you reach out to them, I think some of them, some percentage of them, will be more than happy to start talking to you. Yeah. What about when you start talking to a founder? And say you're even talking to a yc founder um and you feel like the price is high i would say is if you're start if you're doing early stage investing price should not be really an issue because in venture business it's the exit that counts um And I don't and you shouldn't be investing, I think, in a company that you don't think is actually going to do well, to whatever standard it is, like, it doesn't have to be a billion dollars, but you know, to whatever standard you want it to be. And honestly, like, at the end of the day, valuation is supply and demand. And that is what drives some of those valuations um and so sometimes you just have to pay up to get involved yeah yeah uh all right last question so adora you've been at yc now for two and a half years roughly uh how has your view of startups in the world in general changed since then um so despite all the horrible stories in the news, I have actually become much more optimistic about life and the world and startups in general. I think we're at YC, we're sitting in a pretty privileged position of being able to spend a lot of our time thinking about problems, talking with founders who are trying to solve these problems and then seeing all these new cool technologies that they're creating that I certainly couldn't do myself. And so I think when I think about if just some of these people do well, like the world can change for the better. And so um yeah so i'm just optimistic i guess more optimistic but what about yourself uh i'm in complete agreement i mean i think that's like it's too easy if you read the news to believe that everything is black and white um and yeah there are i didn't quite realize it until i was at yc that like people want to treat silicon valley broadly and yc specifically as kind of like the yankees and so it sort of it sort of doesn't matter what you do uh they're always going to be like haters out there but um seeing people come in like specifically when they're just like they're they're building you know like um like artificial wombs and like all this crazy stuff that's going to be the future and it's super exciting uh so yeah i mean my personal strategy is just like not pay attention to stuff yeah and like talk to people who are building things. Yeah. You know, what is really, is somewhat indicative of this is the scooters because the scooters, I like when I got one, I fell in love with it. And I just like, yeah, I just like this, this could change mobility within a city, not just scooters, but bikes and Uber and all these other Navy and stuff like that. Um, but then when it started taking off, people just started making fun of it right what is this san francisco thing and like ruining everything um and everyone looks like dorks riding them but then but then then those the critics i think started some of them anyway i think they're riding these scooters and they're like oh it's actually like i can see. I can see why this could be a thing. And so just by using it and being part of it. And so I think there are some of these barriers maybe that are dropping. Well, I think a lot of companies and products have done a bad job at making people feel included. Because I think that people react strongly when they feel like they don't have any agency. And so, you know it's ironically right like people will be tweeting something about how terrible something in Silicon Valley is and how people are terrible and then you meet the people here and they're just like I don't know I just like want to make something cool yeah so there's this very weird divide yes that that's kind of just in people's heads. Yes. And I think in this same age, it's everyone's responsibility to know, to at least try to predict the reaction of anything you put out there. Yeah. Because, you know, the world is, the world is, you know, at where it is now, for better or worse. Yeah. And so it's just being very thoughtful of what you put out there. It's actually important. Yeah, totally. I mean, yeah, overwhelmingly positive. And I think technology is much bigger than a little app on your phone. Yes. Keeping that in mind, I think, keeps you excited. Yes, yes. Cool. All right, well, thanks so much for making time. Thank you so much. Have fun.