 All right. Hi, everyone. My name is Kevin Hale. I'm a partner at Y Combinator. I went through YC myself back in 2006. I cofounded a company called WooFoo, an online forum builder. I ran that company for about five years and it was acquired by SurveyMonkey back in 2011. My background is in product development, user experience design and customer support. My name is Kasser. I'm also a partner at YC. Quick history is I went through YC in winter 2011 and we had a company called Talkbin and Talkbin lets consumers send messages to businesses and vice versa. We were acquired by Google, coincidentally on the exact same day as Wufoo. So that's an interesting fact for me and Kevin. And I've been a partner here. This is my first batch. I've been a partner a couple of times. My experience is actually similar to Kevin's. I would say product design is kind of what I'm good at. All right. So time to do some office hours. So office hours are a big part of what YC is. And there are kind of four different types of office hours. There are group office hours in the sense that when you're a startup, you actually are subbroken into mini groups at YC. And Kevin and I have group office hours with small groups every Tuesday. And this is the case with all the partners. Tuesday and this is the case with all the partners. The group office hours serve as a way to see what you as a startup are doing and versus the other startups in terms of the tempo as you're going through YC, what you should be working on, what problems you're facing and you really realize I think as a founder in group office hours that your problems are actually not just unique to you they're they're actually very similar to other companies. Then there's individual office hours. That's what we're going to try to emulate here. It's individual partners sitting down with companies. We do a lot of individual office hours every week, hundreds of them. That is really the heart of kind of office hours. And when people refer to office hours, that's usually what they're talking about. There's two other types of office hours worth mentioning. One is investor office hours. So Alfred and I actually did office hours when we were going through Talkman. So investors come to YC. We pair them up and literally go through what the company is in short meetings. And then there are what we call company office hours. So Amazon or Apple will come and very tactical things like problems with the app store or AWS or whatever it might be, Rackspace, Heroku, et cetera. So today we're going to do individual office hours, give you guys a little bit of a peek of, you know, what happens at YC. So these are obviously going to be a little bit different than actual office hours. The ones that we do at YC, they tend to be a lot longer. We only have 10 minutes with these startups. And we usually have a ton of context because we've been working with these startups over time. So a lot of people might think that office hours, like the way you've probably seen them before, are like pitches, but that is not actually the way we run them. We already have a lot of understanding of what the startup's working on. And so usually our office hours are very tactical, very focused on solving very specific problems with them. And so we might not get into that today, but letting you know that's how things are gonna be a little bit different. One thing I do... And we don't have 800 people watching, so that changes the dynamic a little bit. The other thing is, I want to talk a little bit about if you get a chance to do office hours either with YC partners or other notable investors, there's some things that I would highly recommend to you, so both for the startups that we're about to meet with, but also for you guys out there if you go talk to us later today or with other investors down in the future. Because office hours tend to not be like pitches, right, which is where I would recommend you focus on being concise and clear, in regular office hours where you're having a relationship with an investor, what we want to know is very quickly to get to the problem at hand. So the first thing is like know your numbers. It's very frustrating to us that we're talking with a startup and they have, we ask questions about retention, their users and all this stuff and they just don't know where they stand and it makes it very difficult for us to diagnose their problems. The other thing is come to do office hours with a specific problem in mind. Investors don't really like sitting around and shooting the shit, or at least not the good ones. So we like to be able to say that you have something specific, some problem that you want identified or solved, and then we'll brainstorm with you during that. Or we might have a connection that might be able to help solve that problem for you. And the last thing is if you're having an office hours with someone and it feels like deja vu from the last time you talked to them, or you're having an office hours with someone and it feels like deja vu from the last time you talked to them or you're repeating the same numbers over again, still working on the exact same problems, know that that is a problem to us. So try to focus on when you have office hours that you've done a lot of things based on the feedback from beforehand or you have reasons why those things didn't work and come to us with new sets of problems rather than go hashing over the same things over and over again. Alright with that let's do the deal. First company is Zelify and I think we have Lauren. Let's give them a round of applause. This is really turning into a variety show. You guys are gonna have to do some tricks afterwards. Alright so tell us what you do. So guys are going to have to do some tricks afterwards. All right. So tell us what you do. So we are Zelify. We profile high growth, exciting, small and medium sized companies to leverage their company culture and employer brand as a competitive advantage. So we build online profiles using photos of the office, videos of the employees and understanding what it's like to work there. And to what end? To help them attract great talent so talent can self-select. So it's a job site. Yeah, exactly. And why do you guys pick startups? I mean, they tend to be companies that don't have a lot of money to recruit. Sure. So part of the problem was when we were at university, obviously, we're focused on the junior level market. And the large corporates have such a big employer brand and suck in so many talented graduates. But all of these small companies that need great people just don't have that employer brand to leverage. So whilst they don't have a huge recruitment budget, they do have a great company culture and they are an attractive place to work. But for the average job seeker coming out of university, they don't know these companies exist. So, I mean, if I, you know, we did startups, one of the first things you would see when you see a job board is, do you actually, are there other companies on there that are relevant? How do you get kind of these early adopters to actually sign up? Because the first thing I'm looking at is, I don't want to waste my time posting across 15 different sites, so what stage company to actually know about? Sure. So company culture is quite a popular topic at the moment with companies like Buffer showing how important it is to leverage their company culture. So as an example, they profile their company culture quite widely themselves and on average get 400 applicants per job. So the impact of showing your company culture is really valuable. So actually when we go to chat to companies, that's something they understand quite well. So from our perspective, it's just a great way for them to show that off. So this is, the way I sort of see it is a straight up sort of marketplace sort of play. And whenever we're dealing with startups that are creating marketplaces, usually they have like one side of the marketplace like sort of solved, right? With some kind of deep insight or they have something they figured out so they can focus all their time on the other side of the marketplace. So where are you guys at right now? Sure, so I think we're definitely more focused on the company side. So on the supply side? On the supply side, yeah, correct. On the candidate side, our strategies are just kind of with our networks leveraging the student societies on campuses. I know, our strategies are just kind of with our networks, leveraging the student societies on campuses. But which one do you feel like you have solved that you can focus on the other? I think it's the companies. So actually onboarding companies has been a lot more simple than candidates. The misconceptions of startups and SMEs with junior level talent is quite large in terms of what they think it would be like, what career progression is there. So actually solving that side is quite difficult, but the companies really understand why they want to show it off, what it's there for, and how they can attract talent. The thing is, for these types of businesses, signing up companies is usually not that difficult, because the companies don't pay you up front. For the first or second or third posting, but if there isn't traction, I think that becomes ... Yeah, so our companies do pay us upfront. Okay, and because you convince them that like we will help highlight your culture, okay. Yeah, and As a student, why would I use this job board and any other one? It seems in somewhat more limiting than and again the same thing, right? You don't want to post across multiple products. Sure. So obviously, you know, if you're if you're if you're a University graduate looking at jobs Usually you just get a standard job advert and that doesn't tell you anything about what the company is like. So you can get two very similar job adverts, but actually the companies behind them could be very, very different. So what we do is we, as Lauren said, with photos, the office, kind of video interviews with the current employees, information about the company, cultural values. How many companies do you guys have on the site? We have 12 at the moment. the site? So we have 12 at the moment. Okay and how many students have you guys actively placed? Currently that's none, we're still at the early stage. We've had candidates go through to interview. How long have you guys been working on this? About six months, so we went live about a month ago with all our companies on there, so we've just been driving candidates through. What do you think is going to be the biggest challenge in the next three months in terms of, I guess I'm a bit skeptical that students are just gonna rush in to sign up for a job site that yeah exactly and actually we found quite high engagement so we had a candidate go through to interview and haven't heard the results yet but they looked through all the different jobs and there was two companies that they had a background user experience they were quite interested in that area they compared both and came to us and said I don't think I fit in this company, but I'm pretty sure I definitely fit in this one. So for us, that's a great way to understand how they're looking at it, the depth of information, and actually to give some context. You said you have 12 company profiles you've made? Yeah, exactly. I feel like right now, your only job is not to onboard any more companies, but to place some employees obviously there. The big thing is, what are the students saying? How many students have you approached? How many students have actually gone in and filled out applications? Sure. At the moment, our kind of vanity metric would be how many people are coming to the site. But as you said, our kind of focus is just to get those very small handful of very high quality applicants and get them through. think well what I don't think you need to be that select yeah well I think right now you're just trying to like try to figure out what sticks sure right so like how are you finding even your students how they even knowing about you guys I feel like you want as many students to be aware of you so well yeah I mean currently that probably would like just targeting our personal networks so you know people are coming to us saying, you know, we need a job. What kind of companies have you got? And then we can show them the profiles and they self-select. And we're at sort of careers events with universities. And the advantage as well is... How did you guys get the first 12 companies? So, just through personal networks. Okay. And how do you want to get the next 100? So, well, the most recent two we've got through client recommendations. So they've said, you know, part of their value is in marketing their companies as well, so raising their awareness, so getting their brand out there. And that's what's made them recommend us on. So that's part of what we're looking at as well. And then just building in options to share the companies and show that sort of viral loop. So beyond your original, you you know so let's go back to the actual applicants beyond your friends and people at your uni how are you going to kind of communicate this value proposition because i think saying like oh there's great culture in these companies yeah so that's more of our pitch towards companies um for a lot of graduate for a lot of students that are just saying like looking at the profiles and going like, yeah, this looks like good culture? Yeah. Yeah. What's the ingredient to good culture? And how do you differentiate if you have 12 companies that are all saying that they have good culture? So it varies, I guess that you're sort of looking for what makes people want to sit next to that person every day at what context see you know do you want to think I'm worried about right now is like you have done a really good job at building like a company branding yeah like service right but like that job marketplace yeah and I think right now you've got to talk to more students about like are the pages actually affect like they're effective at making the companies feel good about themselves because they were like, well, we look pretty lame before these guys came and made us look good with these sort of landing pages. Right. But like, um, so, uh, the, the punchline, I mean, you don't want these companies to be enthusiastic for you just because you came and shot their offices and you did individual sales and founders do sales. They're very effective. But as you go to the next 100 or 200 companies, there isn't a, at least to me, and this is a short conversation, and this is strange because usually we'd have talked for hours. It's strange to, it's hard for me to identify a very clear differentiator. And I think what Kevin is saying is talking to students because I think if a lot of students are there, companies will show up. So what is the kind of value, what's going to drive students to actually release it? The other thing I'm worried about is like culture. It's one of those things that people, once they sort of experience the company firsthand, it's going to be authentic or not. It doesn't matter what you sort of say on the website. Once they go in there for the job interview, the students are going to know whether that company is lame or not. It's like saying I'm cool. Yeah. You can say So you're lying on this. It's one of those things. Like maybe the focus is like these companies are too lame to make this marketplace sort of take off. And maybe the first companies that you really need to sort of help build out this other side of the marketplace is you've got to figure out how do I get the really coolest companies out there. Whether it's offering them services for free, right? To highlight their stuff and tell their story. As early on as possible because the really good companies figure out how to do it for themselves. The companies that have a hard time talking about how we're cool, they were already going uphill to begin with. Yeah, so in a normal office hours we would say, let's talk next week after you talk to X number of students and we just validate that or even in those conversations with students you can figure out what is actually relevant to students. I think in this audience, and we assume that culture is like a super critical thing, but maybe to students that just isn't. And it's just a hypothesis that we have that isn't really validated by the market. I think it's a good example of an idea. I think it sounds great. I mean, first time you look at it, you're like, oh, this actually makes a lot of sense. But it's very intellectually seductive, and that's not a great thing because you actually don't know there isn't somebody who woke up today and said you know what I'd really love a job site which highlights you know company culture so I can choose a company to work at and that's you know that's a big fear that you actually build something that people actually don't want even though it sounds like something that people would want so changing gears just a little bit have you considered it like actually building this for just regular job seekers in general? Well, I mean, our focus was the junior job market purely because obviously that's the kind of market that we knew and that's how we experienced it firsthand. In my understanding, a junior job market would be like, why not do hourly employees like the Taco Bells of the world? They need a lot of help. Is there a reason that you specifically chose kind of startups other than maybe your own interest? like the Taco Bells of the world? They need a lot of help. Is there a reason that you specifically chose kind of startups other than maybe your own interest? Well, not even so much just startups. I mean, it's very much the kind of high-growth, high-performing SMEs, purely for the fact that, you know, graduates come out of university and they just have no idea what else is out there apart from the large professional services firms. And they just don't seem to want to explore that. Why? I think a lot of it is down to sort of pressure from parents. I feel like you're just guessing right now. So we've done some research on that side. So we had... Like, if they're not actively searching out there, then the triggers for, like, getting them to come to your site are going to be difficult. You have to figure out, like, how do I change the natural behavior of something? In the ideal scenario, you already know there's this latent demand, and you're just going to put a hose on it and extract that value. And so I think what Kevin means there is, yeah, maybe actually students only want to go to professional firms or do something else. Maybe actually they don't want to work for startups and they don't want to work for high-growth SMBs? We have evidence that's not true. For example, we did an office crawl where we had a load of companies. We took a group of students around to look inside. And we had a number of students who said, I was only applying to the structured graduate schemes and now I only want to look in these small companies. I didn't even know these existed in my own city. So you're saying the biggest problem is education right now? Yeah, exactly. Are you guys educating students? Yeah. How are you doing that? So we've got some non-financial partnerships with a lot of the societies, so the entrepreneur societies, things like that, the computer science societies, so to give an understanding of what it's like to work in these companies. We're running office crawls still. We are going to careers fairs. How many students have you talked to through those? I mean, it's kind of in the hundreds rather than the thousands at the moment. Obviously, just the two of us, we're trying to be as high touch as possible. I mean, scaling that is probably going to be one of our biggest challenges. Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, and you say you've talked to students. I take that as to be truth. That means if students really do want these types of jobs, then it becomes really important for you, obviously, to communicate on the landing page, which is kind of there. We looked at the landing page before here. We would do a separate office hours on copy and UX on that. But the kind of other thing is how do you make sure the companies that get in are not lame? Because if the companies that get in are not lame? Because if the companies that get in are lame, students who actually bought that call to action, whether they're here from another society, maybe they're in some professional society. You actually might have ruined them for the other companies inside of your portfolio. They come in and they see lame companies and they're like, well, this isn't exactly what I envisioned. Yeah, that's very true. That's why we are trying to almost have a like a kind of filtering process of the companies that we work with whatever you get what are the kind of rough so like you know 15 to 250 employees high growth high performing and and kind of people centric so they're you know they they would you turn away companies yeah yeah i mean i it's exactly what you say well our site is nothing without having quality um and we've been very conscious of making sure that that's there, especially with the company's side. And it doesn't work if that's not there. And if they're making up this company culture that doesn't exist, then it doesn't work for us. Let's say if I have a lame startup and I really want to be on your site, couldn't I fake some of this stuff? Like say I'm really high growth, say I'm really cool, have a cool icon and get on your site and then actually be lame? I think, yeah. Again, how do you actually test that the companies are not lame? Yeah, I think at the moment it's very sort of time intensive on my side. So I do a lot of the client side sales. And it's a lot of just understanding how they talk, what they discuss, looking at their social media accounts, looking at sort of how their previous employees have discussed their roles. I mean, I think that's the right thing to do at this stage. Again, another kind of, we could do office hours again next week. The other thing I would say is, I'd love that by the way. The other thing I would say is, yeah, like it would be good to identify at this stage, just the two or three different metrics that you do want to, ultimately you want to get to a state where you can say this company we talked to him in ten minutes we can assess they should be on here or not and the reason and how to communicate to other companies that are not on there of why they're not on there so they don't say when students ask them why are you not on this job board to say like well cuz we're lame and they told us so we are out of time thank you very much. Just like that. Thank you. So it's easy to stay in touch with us. Happy Night Y Combinator. Thank you very much. It is strange doing office hours because, you know, on stage because when you're doing individual office hours, we can bring up the next company. Viewsy. As we, you know, when we're doing individual office hours, aside from the thing that Kevin said, there's a lot of context, you can just, I think, really get into the nitty gritty. Like, you know, in this case, I was kind of dying to actually pull up the site to really talk about if a lot of these value props that they're talking about actually show up on the site and are easily communicated because obviously the founders are not going to be pitching to startups and companies. pitching to startups and companies, it's that site that has to make that clear. Okay, on to the next. Tell us your name and a little bit about your startup. Sure. I'm Odero Mezoke, and I am the founder and CEO of a startup called Vuzi. Vuzi is essentially a platform trying to make the physical world an easier place to understand. And we do this specifically for retailers. What does that mean? Yeah, let's just stop there. You said a sentence, and I don't know what that means. I said the wrong thing. OK. Literally, we use. I'm a retailer. What does that mean to me? You're a retailer. We put sensors in your stores. We detect customers as they move around, and we show you statistics. What type of sensors? We put multiple sensors in, actually. And then is that it? Just Wi-Fi access points, basically? So they are the reconfigured Wi-Fi access points, which can then detect the Wi-Fi signals from smartphones. We trilaterate people as they move across the floor. So what about people who just walk by the, I mean, Wi-Fi has some notorious problems, right? So what happens if they just walk by the store and actually go in? That's the biggest problem in our space product-wise. Most of the companies in our space try and detect people using an anaccess point, which, as you've highlighted, you're not able to actually figure out whether a person is inside or outside. So what we've built is a system that actually is able to tell whether a person is really outside or inside. This is live. This is out in the real world. This is live right now. How many customers do you have? We have four customers. Four customers. Is that four locations or four companies? Four companies. OK, how many locations? They're in pilot stage, about one or two locations each. Pilot stage, that means they're paying you or it's not? Yeah, they're all paid. OK, and they're just Wi-Fi access point sensors. Is there anything else? Is there any other type of sensor, quote unquote? Yeah, so we also use, for counters, 3D cameras that can pick up people as they move across the shop. Bearing the lead on the cool stuff. What was that? Bearing the lead on the cool stuff. Yeah, that should be the first thing. The first thing you say is, like, we install customized Wi-Fi access points, 3D cameras, all that stuff, and we track data for retail outlets that hasn't been tracked beforehand. And we give them an awesome dashboard to do it. Yeah, so Kevin wants to join your company and pitch. He's pitching it back to you. We'll talk afterwards. Okay, so I think we understand what you do. So, I mean, I think it's pretty obvious. But let's start. Why do retailers want this? What do they currently do? Okay, so today about,'s say 43% of UK retailers actually track people who move into their stores using a footfall counter. It's either a physical one or an actual footfall counter above a door. Why aren't the other people tracking? So those who aren't tracking either don't see the business benefit yet. It could be a supermarket where they get maybe 90 something percent of people who walk in convert in any way or it could be business that's too small and focused on survival rather than analytics. So your product, these four pilots, are large locations? Mid to large size businesses rather than locations. Even businesses with small locations, and lots of them are still valid customers. Okay, so just large companies that are sophisticated enough to actually digest some of the analytics. Exactly. So let's talk about the analytics that you give. What's the thing that the retailers want the most? Okay, the two pieces of information they want the most. One of those is the percentage of visitors who were outside who are now inside and that ties back to the USP I talked about earlier on. The second of those is how much time people spend inside. So the dwell time and the stop and power as we call them. And then what can they do with those three pieces of data? So with the dwell time, we see a relationship between the amount of money people spend and the amount of time they spend. So literally time being money. For every 1% increase in dwell time, you have a 1.3% increase in the actual spend per customer. That's one. That's great. Yeah. The second is stop and power. So if you see So if you're running a retail store and you get, let's say, 10,000 visitors in on a day, you don't know if that was 1% of passing traffic or 5% of passing traffic. You're unable to optimize and actually increase that. How did you find these first four? So we actually went, we did an accelerator when we first got started. And the accelerator introduced us, as you do, introduced us to a few different customer groups. And we really threw a few things at the wall to see what stuck. We started out targeting smaller retailers going for a shorter... What was your key insight there? Smaller retailers. They just don't have time. They're trying to survive. They're not interested in optimizing. They just want to be around tomorrow. So we went through this and we discovered that retail is a larger market and they have a need. The So we went through this and we discovered that retail is a larger market and they have a need. The challenge that we found is that they have quite a long sales cycle the larger they get. But that's where the real need is as well. So we're just working through that sales cycle right now. So you guys, you're running the pilots. When's the next step for those pilots where they become like paid customers? So the steps are typically six months, three to six months through a pilot. and then you've got a time after that when they're evaluating the product, and then they do a rollout. Is this just like a guess you have, or for past experience? No, this is based, I mean, this is coming in from other companies who've been in our space before, so they're incumbents that we're replacing. It's a mix of what we've learned and what they've done as well. I assume you talked these four pilots in, the ones that said no, what was their most significant objection? So those that have said no, some of it's because they literally have so much analytics in place already and they just don't need any more. Some of them want level granularity. I mean, that's a little worrying, right? Because especially sophisticated retailers, that means they're probably employing a lot of this technology already. So I think one definite. The thing is, they just don't have the kind of brain power to digest and sort of analyze it. They just don't have time to bring on data science people to sort of work on that stuff. So that's usually a problem for a lot of analytics companies. One suggestion would be is to adjust that value problem to say, hey, listen, we actually make this digest, we make this actionable through these different ways. Because even their current kind of products that they're using are probably not actually giving them great information. It'll tell them so many people visited this store. And in your sales pitch, you already give like a little detail of this. You're just like, this factor is highly correlated to this. Then you have to take it the next step. So you can't stop there for this product to be compelling and for them to have it actionable. Then you have to say, all right, here are your options not at play. And ideally, you would have the kind of product that says, we'll take you there. We can help you finish those things. Is there any insights that you have in terms of or any way they're using data to compare retailers against each other or against a location? Yeah, so we're building, this is something that would come with enough of a spread of installations, but we'd like to build an industry-wide benchmark. So you've got customer behavior, customer locations. You have some network effects. Because I think what's tough about, I think, the business right now is what you're talking about is the commodity hardware that any three smart people are right now hearing. You don't have any network effects right now. And quite frankly, with benchmarking, in my experience, having to do forms and service stuff with a lot of people they'll look at Bunchmarking numbers and they will immediately say like if it's again sort of what they want to hear if they'll say like well My my company's different right that doesn't apply to me right and then they'll continue doing what they want because they think like That's someone else. I run my company differently what happened So like the reason I what worries me is so the picture I'll paint is, you're talking about long sales cycles, six months to a year. In the best case, you're talking about a year plus before you get money in the bank. There's not a very clear way to go from one retailer to the other other than just outbound sales. So it's not like a consumer product in which there is some quote unquote virality or some way that you can move over. So you could run out of money before you actually prove this fundamental. What are you spending your time doing right now? That's the challenge. What are you spending most of your time on right now? Product or sales? No, most of the time is sales. Which makes sense. Yeah. And then here's the thing. I'd want to like challenge that assumption that you said, like we have to wait this long period of time to like sort of close people. Like I want you to like make people feel uncomfortable, all this stuff, but also your whole thing is we're providing value. And you want to get started right now. And if you get in on the ground floor with us with this, you're going to get so many benefits out of it. Yeah, and pilots are definitely valuable in certain cases, but the one downside, and you could potentially be experiencing, they actually don't really want it. And as long as you're willing to do some free legwork for them,'re like oh cool like maybe we'll get some insights maybe not who cares so all our pilots are actually paid for okay um to date we've generated about six figures or so in revenue just from the pilots alone and all customers go through pilots so what's your pricing what's your pricing model it's a personal model so or rather it's a per square meter model so larger locations single location pay a lot small locations lots of them pay a smaller amount why that that rather than recurring? It is a recurring rule. So it still recurs. So where are these pilots right now? Are they like three months in, four months in? So the first of those is about a month or so in right now. OK. This is very recent. Very, very recent. Long sales cycle to get there. Yeah. And then what are you supposed to have at the end of it that's going to tip them over? Have you identified and set up a roadmap that says, okay, if we achieve this, or you start seeing these sort of numbers and improvements, then will you sign up? Because right now I'm worried that you're just collecting data and you're showing it to them, and if they feel like, oh, well, I can't do anything actionable with these things right now, they're not going to see that there's any value to them. At the end of the six months or a year you realize meh is the answer. So I would do everything you can to say like, okay, you now see where you are while working with us, we're going to help you drive those downwards or upwards depending on like where they need to go. So that's exactly it. So the first, um, the first conversations we had, we figured out that leaving them to run the pilots on their own just wasn't going to work and they needed actually a fair bit of account management and hand-holding yeah that's and that's where it sounds of the data right because that means you're really I mean you don't what you don't want to become is you don't want the company become a consultancy essentially a consultancy so if you're a product business you basically have to be able to knock out a pilot and then so I would start thinking about definitely those sort of features that like helps them get to the touchdown sort of moment, not just the ones where they're sort of identifying and assessing. MARK MANDELBACHER- No, it's definitely about, one thing we use actually is making sure that they focus on ROIs. We use ROI as the key metric to determine the rollout. CHRIS BROADFOOTNIGA- Yeah, but there's other ways that you can, like the 50%, 60% that said do not use any sort of internal analytics, and the ones that said no to you, there's going to be other rationalization for not to do this. So the ROI has to be so clear that the industry assumes it's a standard. That's a very, very, very high benchmark for a young company to hit in the first year or two before money runs out. And that's scary. We're out of time, unfortunately. On that note. Be ready to finish. It We're out of time, unfortunately. On that note. Be ready to finish. It's a pleasure talking to you. Thanks, Kevin. Thanks. What Kevin is telling him is our email address so we can stay in touch. I mean, these guys are brave in order to talk about their company in front of a large group of people. All right. Next one is... Third and last. And we're going to do something slightly different here. Yeah. Screenpush.me. Give them a round of applause. You got to, as being founders, you have to empathize with other founders. This is not an easy job. So first off, tell us your name and tell us about Screen Push. So my name is Waleed. And Screen Push is essentially a screenshot collaboration tool. So what we're doing is we're trying to target the digital design vertical. And so we're really interested in kind of, if you're redesigning, let's say, Hacker News website, you might maybe go to an agency. Which Kevin is literally doing. You might go to an agency, let's say, instead of doing it yourself. And what you don't want is that agency, you give them the brief, let's say, and you don't want that agency to go away two weeks later and say, hey, here it is, full final product. Okay, so it makes it easier for designers to collaborate, or a person in a company to collaborate with somebody outside their company by sharing their screen. So yeah, kind of two-fold in the sense that it gives this tool that allows the designers to collaborate. So here's the thing I'm worried about. We've gone several sentences into this and I don't know exactly what the thing is. Okay. You just told me about this is the kind of solution and then you talked a little bit about the problem. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's like a desktop application, right? Perfect. I'll Desktop application that the designers download themselves and then keyboard shortcut to actually send the current version that they're designing to the other designer while each and every screenshot is kind of saved and organized in a timeline so that the client can then go onto a website and not have to download any kind of desktop application. That's a good place to start in terms of when you talk about copy for your actual landing page. Is that? You actually want to describe. You can start off with this very verbose what you literally do and then pare it down as a good kind of exercise. I don't want to pick on you, but this is actually a typical problem that we see all the time, especially as investors. A lot of founders, the reason that they start their company is around the why, right? The problem, whatever the inspiration for them getting into the space. And it's the passion that sort of fuels them. But for people who see tons of pitches over and over again, the problem that we have from our perspective is just remembering what you do. So always lead that first. Make sure we understand that. And then if we're interested, we're going to prompt you and pull out of you all the whys, the passion, and all that stuff. However, we're going to stop here. And we all the whys, the passion, and all that stuff. However, we're going to stop here, and we've actually, a lot of the kind of office hours that Kazza and I do at YC is actually UX reviews, and so we go through people's sign-up flows and stuff, and so we want to do something different with you. So we're literally going to go through the sign-up flow of the product and give us our thoughts and hear why you made decisions that you made sure all right okay so why don't you turn around so you can see and then the way we did this because um we didn't want to take a chance on trying to do like a live demo or what have you is i just uh went through the product through the sign up flow and i took like a billion screenshots of going through that experience so i'm just going to sort of narrate and go through it here all right so here's the front page uh of screen push. And this is the top third of it. So it says, screenshot collaboration made easy. And then the next sentence is collaboration. It's what we do. And literally, I think Kaz and I both thought the exact same. It was like, I don't know. What do you do? What do you do? Yeah. There you go. All right. Really? We're doing something together? I wonder what it is. So if we scroll down the page a little further, and he talks a little bit about his features here. So in descriptions here, each team member is assigned a specific shortcut. Notifications are subtle, gentle, and understanding. Yeah, the punchline here is really no one would read this. We'd probably already be at the bottom of the page. Right. So crossfire compatibility. And I'm starting to get the first hints by looking at one screenshot. And it says Mac, Windows, check, check. That, oh, this is a desktop app, right? Then the last part says, looks familiar, thought so. Say goodbye to the screenshot graveyard forever. So now this is the first time I hear about this is some kind of problem that it's sort of solving. But I still don't know exactly what it is. OK. There should be an image, to be fair, on the left that demonstrates what is the screenshot graveyard. But that may have not came up. Okay. It happens. It's understandable. So I think just a bit before we go into the actual sign-up flow, the punchline here is if you sat down, you know, there's hundreds of people here with your site and said, hey, listen, I'm an intern or I got hired by this company called Screen Push. What do you think this page is after looking at it for not, like we've already talked for five minutes, and within 500 milliseconds or two seconds or three seconds or four seconds, I don't think any of them would get what you think your company is. And that is a big deal because that's how most people are going to discover your product. And that's kind of a meta piece of advice is you have all these things that you know what you mean by the word collaboration yeah uh but not collaboration means lots of different things so lots of things exactly i think it's become like this big buzzword and we got drawn into that so it's like yeah we're a collaboration you use it twice right here yeah exactly uh and we got drawn into that kind of the same with like big data everybody uses these words and everybody has completely different interpretations. And we definitely... So one thing I will say positive before I move on to, it is a beautiful site. It's visually well designed. Are you a copywriter? Did you write all the copy? I did write all the copy, yeah. Okay. So how do you recommend you guys go through the site and do the signup flow? Because there's some really nice copy in terms of the sign up, in terms of the emails that he sends. All right. And in real office hours, we wouldn't compliment you. We just go on to the next thing. All right. Cool. Good to know. Good to know. So I went through, and you click on the button, and you go through a sign up procedure that goes under. So what's your email, the password, can you tell me's inline, I think that's great, it's a unique signup process, but literally, what you do, I didn't know what to put there, I think the example you have was a frontend dev, and I was like, oh, should I put product manager, or should I put investor, I didn't know what to do, and then if you go back one slide, two slides, I'm sorry, I didn't know if it was end of the signup flow, which was very frustrating because I'd already gone through a bunch of questions. And then I had to figure out, I think that's when I closed the browser. Sure. OK. All right, so you go through it. And then it kind of does this nice pause. And it says, you check my email, and I get into the app. And then the first thing it shows me is this screen right here. It says, my team, you did it. Let's get started. Oh, you don't seem to have created any teams yet. Let's get started. So we've got repetition there. Start a lot. And then team name, add team, and then team invites. And so the first thing I'm thinking is also like, I don't know what this is. The first thing I do not want to do is send it to my friends. Right? So this would not be the ideal setup. And as desktop software, a lot of times the hardest part is getting them to install software. So it's weird that it didn't start off with that, which is where I went to because I was like, let me see what it is before I send it to any friends. So go and download it. So it goes here, no convenient shortcut link to the applications folder. So people are falling all left and right here. At this point, you have one soul left. So go through here to connect through it. And then what happens when you hit open is absolutely nothing. It clears away. And I was like, so I'm going to start. What's going on? And you'd have to notice, and this is the S with the hexagon, that that icon appeared in the top dock. If you didn't know that, then you wouldn't know. That's the only indication. Right, that it started and you're into it. So I click on here and I see username. And I'm like, I don't remember adding a username to my flow. I only put in an email address. So I'm what's going on and I go back through and I actually go back to the account and I said like oh let me just log into the app when I come back here there's no link to login so I'm like okay well let me refresh because I remember this thing showed up dynamically and then I'm like I don't see a link to login and it took me a while to realize they all the ready registered is the way I get to login subtle I finally get there I actually had to go through a password reset theme at some point. Good copy. Thank you. Thank you. It's a really great copy in the places that you sort of catch me. And I think that's sort of like what got me through it. So we get to reset password. I do this and this actually, this page just refreshes backwards, but it has no confirmation on it. Okay. Except there's an email you do send me and that's the only way I know that the password will reset. So I probably hit that thing like 10,000 times, right? And so when I finally like, because I did it like five times, I don't know which password actually got accepted or whatever. So I eventually get logged in and I sit here and I'm finally here and I'm like, I don't know what I'm supposed to do. The thing I think is like, oh, I should click the biggest button on here. So the button I click is what do you think? Because it's the most, has the greatest sort of affordance. And of course it's like a feedback email form. So okay, that's not it. So I finally hit the hexagon push thing, and it takes a screenshot, and then this is all it does. It's like a cropped Kevin at Y Combinator and a check and an X. And I'm like, what am I checking? What am I crossing off? I don't know what's happening. And eventually I check it off and I go back to the app to see any clues about it, and there really isn't up there. So anyway. So that is very harsh. Yes. And... Yeah. So in, you know, in regular office hours, we would really be going step by step and really figuring out what would be better copy here, what are the individual things, we would really be going step by step and really figuring out what would be better copy here. What are the individual things? We literally just got called for time. What would we actually change in every single one of those screens? And it's very tactical, and it's mundane and boring, but that's what building a company is. That's what makes it a great product. But seeing it that way, you can see every place that I had a problem. And just the fact that that slide deck had like 25 slides before I got to the part where I'm logged into the app. The point I would take away for you guys who are all building products right now is you should do what Kevin and I basically did here, which is have people who don't know your product use it all the time. I'm talking about every single day, meeting people who don't know what your company does and letting them actually go through the sign of flow, their first interactions. and letting them actually go through the sign of flow, their first interactions, because that, I mean, you're just so caught in your own company that you don't realize the most basic things, like it's a desktop app, is not obvious. And therefore, it becomes a real fundamental problem. Exactly. Awesome. All right, so we're at... Those are not normal hours. We'll do regular conversation with him offstage. Yeah. So we're at 4 o'clock now. I think we're having a break until 4.30. We will see you then. Thanks guys. Thank you.