 All right. So my name is Kevin Hale. My name is Caster Yunus. And we're partners at Y Combinator. And what that means, really, belieffully, is that especially when we're not in batch, we're out there trying to recruit and talk to as many founders as possible. In addition, we read tons of applications, work with the startups as they go through the batch, and then help alumni afterwards. Most of what we do is do tons of office hours, which is what we're gonna do here today. There are four different types of office hours that we do. The kind of first one is group office hours. We split the batch into kind of subgroups, and we meet two partners at a time with like five or six startups, and those startups kind of describe, and it's a weekly meeting, they describe kind of what's going on in their company. Group office hours are really good in terms of helping you as a founder understand as you go through YC kind of what tempo your company's growing at and also see that the problems that you encounter as a startup are actually pretty similar across very different types of companies. The second type of office hours that we do, which we'll try to emulate here, are individual office hours. That is kind of, when you hear the term office hour, vast majority of the time, that's what we're talking about. The third type of office hour is company office hours. We'll have folks like Apple or Android or whoever come in, Rackspace, AWS, come in and help companies with technical problems. And then the last type of office hours that we do are investor office hours. So folks like Sequoia and Dreesen, et cetera, will come over and they will talk to companies. And that's right before demo day to kind of warm them up and getting ready for fundraising and for demo day. So with that being said, there's some other things I think that's worth noting about office hours and how to do them effectively. Well, the first thing is obviously what we're going to do here on stage is not normal office hours. So we only have ten minutes with each company. Usually we don't do this with 1,500 people inside of the room. So... 1,700. And then I think the other thing is we usually have a lot of context with the company. So we have already read their applications. We've got to meet them a couple of times. And so usually we're diving deep on a problem and it's going to be a lot more tactical. So usually we won't get to do that here. What we said to all these companies is afterwards we'll go and talk to them a lot more in depth. Yeah, we're going to try to avoid creating like a pitch and response scenario and much more along. Okay, what are problems that you face and then trying to kind of dissect them. And hopefully you guys will get some value out of that. The other thing is we try to make everyone sort of understand really clearly is that in office hours, our job is not to tell you what to do. A lot of people come to us and kind of ask us, like, what would you do in this instance and stuff? And a lot of times we will tell you our opinion for sure, but it's usually what I tell a lot of the startups is you're trying to figure out your own heuristic so that you ultimately sort of run the company. You don't need to come back to us anymore. I think the thing we like to tell people is like, you need to start earning your own equity eventually over time. There's two things that we like to do when we have office hours to make them as efficient as possible. The first one is we love companies that know their numbers, right? You'll see a little bit of this today. We'll ask tons of questions, like diving into the company to try to figure out really clearly, okay, this is where you are, and then start getting a sense of like, this is where you need to be. Your metrics are kind of the heartbeat of your company. It's always, I think, off-putting if you don't know very basic things, because otherwise, what are we talking about? And then the last thing is, we always prefer that office hours you're coming to us with a specific problem in hand that you want to have solved. So if you come to us and you just want to sort of shoot the shit or just, like, catch up with the stuff, like, I'm going to be really sort of pissed, because, like, that's a really inefficient use of time for us and for you, because ultimately you should be like probably working on your shop and working on whatever growth numbers or KPIs that we want you to be focused on. And then there's a clear sign that if you're having multiple office hours with us, that we're going to be worried if you're repeating yourself. So if we had talked about something and I talked to you again like a week later or two weeks later. Seems like we're hearing the exact same story. Right. That is not a good sign for you. The companies that do the best are usually ones that, like, everything that we had talked about, they went and tried, and they either are coming back to me and say, like, this is what worked or, like, hey, Kevin, like, this is the stuff that totally didn't work. Here's the reason why, and then we tried something else. Okay, with that, let's bring our first company on. I think it Oh, we had some slides. Obviously they were not that relevant. All right. Yeah, give them a round of applause. You guys are brave for coming up here. Thank you. All right. So why don't you guys introduce yourselves and tell us what you guys do. I'm Aaron Schunemann. I'm William Webb. Divide.io is an open source back-end as a service. So we help applications easily connect to a back-end server. We handle things such as user registration and management, data storage and querying. Okay, so how far are you guys live? Are you in beta? What's your... We just launched in a private beta, well, public beta technically on Monday. And so far we only have an Android SDK, so we just launched it to the Android dev subreddit. And, yeah, so far it's going pretty well. You said applications, so is that web applications or mobile applications or what kind? Right now it's only Android, and we're going to start working on iOS SDK soon, and we want to do HTML5 and JavaScript as well. Like open source parse. Right, exactly. Okay. Okay, well, just starting there, like how are you guys similar or different from parse? Well, the whole reason that we started developing this is because we were using parse for a few of the different applications that we were working on. But we kept in running into issues or things that we couldn't do with parse because you can only do what it allows you with its APIs. you can only do what it allows you with its APIs. All right, so what are some things that you can do that Parse could? Well, the main reason, or one of the main key points of what we do with Divide.io is it's completely made to be extendable, so it's open source. So as a developer goes, they use it, we try to provide all the basic APIs that they would need. But if they need to do anything extending like if you're, say you have a user sends in data for whatever reason and you wanna do events based off that or if you wanna query like another website from your web server, Parse doesn't give you a really good way to do that. So one of the big things is doing- They can't do it or they don't give you a good way to do it? They do give you a way to do it, that? What's on the JavaScript side? So before maybe a year and a half ago, they released cloud code, which is basically you could create JavaScript functions that you could customize and do things. So every single time you hit one of those, it counts as an API, and then an API hit, and then you go from there. I guess the biggest thing I'm trying to figure out is, like, do you guys have users right now, some people trying it out and using it? Yes, so we don't know exactly how many because it's open source and we just launched on Monday. How many requests are you serving? That's the thing, we don't have servers. Oh, they install it themselves, the whole thing. So it's open source, which is kind of the other, I think, part of the open source parse description we should probably discuss. What kind of business do you see this becoming? Because there are other open source products that become large businesses. So what do you see happening for you guys? So we're going to try to do the Red Hat MongoDB model. Kind of do consulting services. But Linux is pretty complicated and used by large institutions. Is your thing super complicated and so hard to use that people need support and pay for it? Yeah, like, literally, like, that's what we're... That is the business model. It's so crappy. We will help you figure out how to make it... Well, MongoDB is pretty good. From our research, we think that companies will pay for support. Like they want the option to be able to just pick up the phone and call. Oh, are they paying for support right now for you guys? Not from us. Well, we know that you, I think, because we looked up support actually on your site, and it said, like, go to Stack Overflow. Yeah, yeah. Like, literally, that says, like, go to Stack Overflow. Yeah, right. Yeah, so we do that's the first thing. I think for anything like this, especially if you're trying to build a platform that you get people excited about, you're desperate to just get people to sign up and grow. And you've got to figure out how you're going to detect that. But your biggest thing is, I would not put any barriers to that growth. And I would be as open as possible to say, we in beta currently right now, right? Yeah. Yeah, because it has beta, like, on the ground all over. So the reason why it's in beta... That's an easy question. Yeah. Well, we wanted to wait until we had an iOS SDK to, like, really, like, push the full launch. But, I mean, now we kind of... Okay, but I'm just saying, like, it, I want to see on a back end as a service, I'm going to build my app on top of, is beta. And so that's going to limit growth in lots of different ways. So there's all this different kind of stuff that you've got to overcome. And I think you should forego, because you're seeking growth no matter what, and then once you get a big enough community, then you can start saying, all right, going to be some people who are going to be willing to pay for dedicated expertise. But that comes way down the line. But that's scary because if it's so far down the line, I mean, the kind of general mechanics of a company are you need money to support your company and then you need to extract value from whatever ecosystem or extract money from the ecosystem. And that would require for you guys a large community who's dedicated to divide, and then institutions or folks that are willing to pay, either small or large companies that are willing to pay. That's pretty scary, because that could take a long time to get to. Have you guys thought of any other alternative other than the Red Hat, Mongo? Well, eventually we would like to do some type of hosted solution to directly compete with Parse and the others. But we want to make it to where it doesn't have the same limitations. So we're already running close to time. Wow. So just going to end on here. Your biggest thing is you've got to build a community no matter what. And that's the biggest evidence that I as an investor is gonna look at for something like this, right? Is like getting a sense for how many people are using it, and are you talking to tons of users that are trying it? Like has anybody even asked you guys about like support and help for this stuff? Yes, so. So how are people using it right now? From what we could tell, like I said, we just launched on Monday, just with one Reddit post. I see. So we have like 12 people who are part of the beta testing and we ask for all their feedback. And so we've already gotten feedback on our licensing. We've already changed that because we use GPL and we overlook that you're supposed to open source everything when you use GPL library. So we changed the license. We got feedback on our website. That's good. I mean, that is definitely the right attitude. I mean, I think the analogy is kind of when you're building an early stage company, you're kind of like in this dark cave and every piece of feedback, whether structured or unstructured, you can get from your users or your community. It like informs where you should go within that rather than just kind of headlong running in. So I think that's a great start, but certainly a really long way to go. Yeah, this is just getting as many people signed up as possible and figure out who are the first 100 people that are going to be super dedicated to this and have built something cool with it, because those are going to be the examples that inspires all the rest of your community. And also, I really would push on the support as a business model assumption by trying, even at the beginning, to offer some support and see if someone, I mean, it's certainly, you know, it's early, but you should test that assumption. All right, guys. Cool, thank you, guys. Thanks. Have I already lost the clicker? All right. The next company is Kuona. Kuona. And if you forget, it's on their shirts. All right. Similarly, can you guys introduce yourselves, and then what do you do? Yes, I'm Chema. We're from Montreal, Mexico. And I'm Agustin, the same. So what we do is a corner which is a mobile app that is for building your shopping list. And what we do is we leverage all the information on prices, deals, and indoor location of products. Let's be a bit more specific. When you say it's a mobile app for building your shopping list. Yeah. So when I open it up, do I just see it? What do I see? You have to build your shopping list or you can copy-paste it from, for instance, your iPhone notes app or... Why wouldn't I just use my, like, Post-it or iPhone or notepad? Yeah, yeah. The difference is that we have all the information on the prices, location of products inside the store Any regular shopping list on steroids. Yeah, intelligent. So we help people save time and money when groceries are. I'm trying to think here. So I put my things as a list, and then the next thing you spit out to me is a bunch of stores of the prices of all those items? Like, yeah. You have your preselected store and wherever you get into another store. So the first thing I see is I have to pick a store. Your store, yeah. But for example, if you get into another store, you will automatically switch to the store you're at. Your shopping list. Okay. So we'll adjust. Is it location based? Yes, it's location based, and immediately it will show you deals for you based on that. Okay, so I first have to download the app, then I put on all this information. Where are you just kind of peel back what you guys are doing? Where are you getting all that inventories pricing information? So we, depending on the retailer, like we have some agreements with some retailers back in Mexico, with some other because they have the power in the industry, although they want it for themselves, like they like, okay I love it but I don't want my competitors in, so we kind of bypass that by using bots and updating information there. So you're scraping their websites? Some of them, some of the retailers. And there are APIs that are free. Okay, so some scraping, some APIs. But the prices are different from the web. In the case, like in the stores we're working, like depending, even the store, each store is different in the same street. And depending which is the store that delivers you the product, you have the price of that. Do you guys have some users right now? Yes. All right, so how many users? So we have over 11,000 users. And yeah, we started initially. Where are you guys launching? In Monterrey, Mexico. It's all in Monterrey. Mexico City. And so basically, yeah, we've learned a lot. Like, for example, the first months, like, we bleated users. And then we started to see like people started to love more the prices and the deals and our cohort curve started to stabilize much higher so like i'm just gonna make an example of you so like um i'm gonna apologize ahead of time so you said like you know i get this all the time a lot of startup founders they'll come and talk to me and they'll say like i was like you know how's your sort of user growth or what have you and they'll say like one specific number. Like, we have 11,000 users. And for us, especially at YC, I'm interested more in acceleration versus a specific velocity. So what I immediately want to know is what is the rate of growth right now? So for the past six months, actually, our rate has been 9.5% week over week. If we kind of like, because some of the lower Where are users hearing about this app? So initially, we do it through our network in Mexico, and then we did. We have a lot of friends, 11,000. And then we started doing some advertising, like in Facebook ads and testing which kind of message worked better. How much have you spent on acquisition? For instance, it goes between $0.1 to $0.4 per user. OK, so in total, you spend like 10? And then how engaged? For every dollar, you can get up to 10 users. Oh, OK. I'm sorry. How engaged are they? Like, how often are they making lists and stuff like that? So our active users use us 2.8 times a month. Yeah, but what is percentage of users that are active? That's 36%. And for instance, out of those 36%, the top 25 use this over five times a month. So it's more than once a week. SPEAKER 1. So one question I have is, do you actually get anyone to switch what products they buy? Or do you change anyone's behavior? Because that's the goal, right? If you have something that shows people prices for stuff or showing them some kind of thing, this is ultimately going to be this recommendation slash data play. And so I'm wondering, do you have any evidence that someone decides to shop somewhere else or buys a different product as a result of looking at your app? Yes. So our end goal in the end is to empower people with information to make wise decisions when grocery shopping and save money. So are they your ultimate customer, like your people buying stuff? How are you as a business making money? So we're actually making money from brands because we initially tried to get from retailers, but they're very long cycles and they have the power. But brands love us because we allow them to reach the right customer at the right time. And they have a lot more dollars. Leveraging the location, the store that they go. And so yeah, that's what we're doing. I do want to go back to the data question only because that's so critical in this app growing. So you're scraping stores, and what happens if they don't have any online presence? No, we don't have those stores. Yeah, we only have, for example, in Mexico, we have Walmart of Mexico, Superama, H&M, all the big retailers already. So there's only, yeah, so it's not a high, when you use the example of down the street, there's a lot of retailers. You're actually not in a lot of retailers. You're just in one. No, we're like five of the big retail stores all throughout Montreal and Mexico City. And we actually started with a small store because the small stores wanted to, but we found out that it's difficult to scale. So we plan to have all the big stores first and then go. Have you found that users have a hard time remembering that your app exists? I know you have this 36% who are active, but what about the 65? Yes, actually, whenever it happens to months that they haven't used it, we send an email to, why haven't you used us? So yeah, and they've been saying, okay, you don't have my store yet, add my store. And whenever we add a new retail chain, usage grows. And also, like, okay, I'm not the guy that goes grocery shopping in my house. So that's also, so it's targeting, at the beginning we targeted everybody because we wanted to see who sticks. And now we're. So ultimate customers are your brands. So how is that going with them? Like, how are you attracting the first brands and how are you growing the brands who are your real customers? So we have, through our personal network, we have experience in consumer products and we have connections there. But then actually when we started, we sent a newsletter with benefits to the brand. Some stars have come out to us. And then how effective is it? I'm sorry? How effective is advertising on your platform? Yeah, so... What do you exactly do? I mean, so let's say I'm Nestle in Mexico City, what am I buying? Yeah, so it's basically two things. One is the advertising, like targeted advertising, and the other is the analytics. Because we give them analytics on the top of mind. Like, even for the person who haven't seen the ad, they see, okay, for instance, this Coke is over Pepsi and it's in our product searches. So we're given this right now. We're surprised they like this brand awareness information. And the effectiveness of the advertising, we still need to prove that, right? So what are your biggest problems right now? So we have several problems, right? Like challenges are ahead. One of them is like so we've been focusing on stickiness right now. We also want to even grow more viral. That's one issue. And we've been doing it by improving the product, having a better experience. So when you say that, right, you want to be really clear, like, why is it it, why are you doing the thing that you're doing, why are you focusing whatever attention on? Yes. So what's, like, the underlying reason? Is it because, is this what your customers, the brands and stuff need? Yes, the brands, like, they want us to have more users. Yeah. Okay, we love it of proof of concept to kind of clear out some assumptions. But now our focus is go huge with the users in order to have a better offer. So the biggest issue is definitely post-11,000 users are going to get to the next 100,000. Yes, that's our goal. Okay. So and then on the retailer side, what are you guys going to do about growing from beyond Mexico City and Monterey? How do you expand the kind of data input? So we have networks, as we said, so we're going to continue tapping them. We actually have some new investors that are very good in that network. But after that, we have to build a marketplace. Why would you need to know? I mean, you guys are just, oh, just to talk to them to get access to their APIs? Is that why? No, in order to talk to them to get access to their APIs? Is that why? No, in order to connect us to try us. And then after that, in order to grow, we have to build a marketplace where the brands can do their campaigns without us. Because right now, and we're doing it intentionally, we're learning what the brands do. Yeah, I understand that. But the thing is, you don't build a marketplace to grow. What you've got to do is grow all the users and stuff. And then you build a marketplace to make it more efficient. So the only focus is, how do I get as many users as possible? Right now, it's out of the world. Because the brands will just come to whoever has all the users. That's true. So you just figure out the supply side. Yes, right and then you can worry about demand. Yeah, like obviously there It seems like an insolent, which is good. Yeah, so for that what I'm trying to think of is What is the mechanics for growth right now? Like how are people hearing about your app and like downloading? Yeah, that's clearly the biggest issue. Yes, some Facebook and stuff like that. Yeah, is it cost-effective like like for 40 yeah with for what we have been paying, like the value that users pay. The reason that formula really doesn't make sense, the 10 users for a dollar, is because not all 10 users end up staying, right? So you're really paying for, yeah, exactly. So it's like a third of that efficiency. Yes. And that doesn't really scale in the long term, because then if you equate that to the amount of brand dollars that will be spent for those limited users, you're just going to be throwing a lot of money out. And you hope to get to the point where you don't have to advertise, but there's nothing fundamentally in the product which would get you away from that. Another interesting thing... So it's almost like you're structurally setting up the product to continue to lose money, which isn't really... Oh, that's not the plan, yeah. but for instance, like, we are targeting, like, our pricing is based on what they currently pay for in-store marketing. Yeah. We're not, like, so we're comparing to internet standards of advertising, we're much higher, like, much more higher. So we're totally out of time. Yeah. But it is great that you're going for brands. I mean, I think that's probably... It makes brands. I mean, I think that's probably... It makes sense. I think the biggest thing is you got to figure out, like, what is this trigger that gets people to say, like, oh, when I need to have a shopping list or I got to figure out what's the best prices for stuff, like, how do I think of Kowona to do that? Or how do I get my current users to tell other people about it? That one of those things where it's like everything else already works, and when we add paid acquisition to it, it's like throwing gasoline. Yeah, I agree. If all this other stuff doesn't work, then you're throwing water in it. Yes, and we do have organic growth. Awesome. Awesome. Thank you, guys. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Utility API. All right. And our next startup is Utility API. Okay, why don't you guys do quick introductions, and what you do. I'm Alina Lucas, CEO. And I'm Daniel Ressler, CTO. In Utility API, we solve data problems for new energy companies. So we work with utilities and solar companies to automatically download bill history, and we reduce the cost of customer acquisition and customer management. And this is beyond solar. It's also storage. How do you guys reduce the cost of customer acquisition? So previous to this, I was a project manager for a solar company, and the first thing you have to do whenever you go up to a customer you say hey do you want to buy solar you ask them for their bill history and that's a very painful and time-consuming process so I'm trying to get so your customers are people who provides like solar panels for people in homes and what have you yeah not consumers right not B2B SaaS okay well with you guys unlike the other office hours, we are going to do something different. We're going to do a UI review of your site. Oh, no. Bum, bum, bum. Oh, man. This is turning out badly for me. All right. All right. There we are. Oh, this is already too far ahead. How do I go back in this? The red. Oh, there's no red button. There's no red button. There's only one. He did it for us. All right, fantastic. So this is Utility API. Sorry, we're going to have to kind of scoot back and look around here. I can't even see it. Yeah, we can just stand, actually. So Utility API. This is the website. So we're going to just go through the product. We're going to go through the landing page, then we're going to So this is something we do very frequently at office hours. Like I said, it's very tactical. So let's start off. So first thing, this is Utility API's homepage. If you look at this tagline, download a utility build and usage data fast, with your intro, makes a lot of sense. Right. But your customer or anything like that is not listed on there. So it's like. Yeah, the first time you look at this, I really i mean i'll to be very very frank i went through the entire product everything i'm gonna go through and i finally then figured out what you guys actually did and that's probably not a good thing so the first thing is like when people come to a website they've got all these questions they got to ask to figure out like whether i'm going to stay here or not so it's like what is it is it right for me where can get help? How much does it cost? Or what's the catch and all that stuff? So all the answers have to be sort of answered. So here, like... And really kind of a good rule of thumb, as when you land on this, is like within milliseconds, you understand very clearly as a user, who is this site for? Is it for me as a consumer? And what is this product going to offer? And that You miss on both of those. But I will say this. You have a great name, right? Because, like, my assumption was what you guys ended up describing, right? But as I sort of went through the site, I just got, like, maybe I'm wrong in what I thought this was going to be. So let's get going. So scrolling down, we see the next slide. There we are. What is Utility API? There's a wall of text and some generic images. So the first thing, I'll be very honest with you, I didn't read any of that. I know, like, I knew I was doing this review, and it still wasn't enough to get me to actually read what this product is. I was like, 1,700 people, five seconds, let's go to the next thing. So, I mean, you're just gonna get that over and over again. What people are gonna wanna know, and I think right away is gonna be, oh, utility API, very obviously, is an API for you get access to people's utility bills. Who wants access to that? Oh, probably solar companies or people who wanna build on top of the power grid with modern technologies, right? So what we do is we abstract all the way that's authentication of getting all that billing data and turn it into an SQL query basically for you, right? And in that short sentence, like, that would have hooked me. Yeah, but that doesn't have any of that there. The other, I mean, I think a good rule of thumb, a good rule of thumb, I'm sorry you guys would do this in front of 1,700 people. It's a lot easier to do it when it's just in a room. The other thing is, you know, a good rule of thumb when you're building landing pages is anytime you're tempted to put up, like, clip art, it probably doesn't need to be there. That's like, the clip art almost never is providing any type of information which is valuable for those few milliseconds that people are scrolling down. So, I don't know, two blue silhouettes shaking hands, I don't know what that's telling me. All right, continuing on. So this is the first time where I had some understanding of what you guys actually did. These are actual use cases. But the problem is, I clicked on the use cases link, if you've seen the URL. It doesn't say use cases actually in the title. And so then, you know, it takes a little bit more processing. We won't go into copy details here. Some of the copy could actually use work like maybe the headers shouldn't be distributed solar or energy tools or energy efficient, but literally the customers that are actually using the product because then I can quickly identify, oh, I'm one of those people. Excuse me. You're a developer trying to build. Yeah. I'm a utility company's project manager. I could see this. So you're actually putting the people who are actually part of the use cases as headers. You're going to get that transfer information that's much faster. Finally, getting further down, this was probably the most confusing part of the page. Only after reviewing this a couple of times did I realize that these are actually not comparisons with each other. One is a $50 one-time charge and the other is a $5 monthly because I kept thinking there's like an order of magnitude and difference in pricing so I must be missing something in these like in this checklist and there's only one difference in the checklist which is the first checklist right and so it just takes too long to figure that out so and the thing is, what you say is, you're telling the way the difference is, how you use it is how it's different, right? But what you really need to do is tell me why it would be appropriate for me, right? So it's like, hey, do you need to one time grab all the billing data from one of your customers, right? This is the one you need. Oh, do you need to have continuous access to your customers' data, this is the one you need. So that should be the only thing that it sort of says. The kind of punchline here is the way you display information, especially in pricing, dramatically impacts the way people relate to, is this for me? Which one of these options should I pick? And when you put it this way, it really is like a comparison between one or the other. Right. Also, just don't, like, it might be easier in a grid with Xs rather than exactly the same. But my gut tells me, what I would do is just say, hey, we offer two different products, right? And every company might have to use, need to only use one or need to use both. Okay, so continuing on. Further down the page, utility coverage. Oh, I love this. He's being sarcastic. I think the only way that this could be worse, the only way that this could be worse is if you had a picture of a globe and tried to show what was the region that you covered. We're precisely this tiny. We have this little coverage in this vast, vast market. So just zoom into California and then you're like, oh shit, these guys are really pretty big there. All the California coverage. All right, cool. 10% of all electricity. Yeah. Right there. 10% of the U.S. Cool. You don't make it look like 10%. Yeah. Let's just say. Again, I'm going to reiterate the harshness. We don't mean to say, you know. No, that's great. Great feedback. Thank you. So now let's jump into the harshness. We don't mean to say, you know. No, that's great. Great feedback. Thank you. So now let's jump into the product itself. You sent me a code. I put it in, and this is what I land into. This is. Actually, I have a question for you. What's the most important thing you want people to do on this page? Click the Add New link. Oh, great. Add new, the tiniest link on there. So I actually went back to your email because I was like, maybe this is the whole product. I'm just looking at it. And then you have this simple 12-step process to how to demo your product. So the two points are like 12 steps is a lot. The other point is all of this should be built in to the product. So you know very quickly add new is the goal or add service is kind of the fourth item on there. So that is what I figured out. And so just design-wise, right, the thing that looks like a button, that's the thing that actually activates. This is the page I'm on, my services, right? And if I click on that, it just refreshes the page. And then add new, of course, is, you know, the two tiniest link on here. And my recommendation is you just start on add new. You know they don't have any, you're just going to jump them right in. So the way Kevin actually dealt with this, he really thought those were tabs. And so he's like, oh, well, wait, this is like my, really, we were really pretty lost here. So anyways, we actually click add new. I just zoomed in on it if you guys couldn't see for the back. This is probably how big it should be on the actual page. So you can't really miss it. And okay, so finally I click add new. Sorry, there's a bit of a lag here on the clicker. And I'm sent to this. This is nice because it tells me very clearly there's a couple of steps that I have to do. I click step, in the drop down I actually click on demo as you told me in the email. And what you guys might have not noticed, but when I clicked on demo, a third step appeared underneath but it's below the page fold so I didn't know it until I retried it. And so these are things that, so the kind of general, the takeaway here is what's happening in real life in front of you guys is we're like users who are using this who have no context about what the product is. A lot of times when founders design their products, they're using terms and interactions which they've already kind of, they've already cached in their mind. And so they're like, oh, of course, well, clearly, like, step one is gonna be picking the utility you're gonna be, and the, you know. Kevin and I don't know that. Yeah, so at this point, I was almost like, wait, is this more for consumers or what have you? I didn't realize this is, you were probably thinking, this is supposed to be a developer API. Where is the documentation, and why wasn't there documentation? Because it wasn't on the homepage. And I feel like for every API company, the biggest thing where you need to understand is, an API, the interface is documentation, right? That's the thing you need to get people most excited about. And it actually is when we went through your docs. Those are great. TONY MCDONOUGHTON- They're great. DAN GALPIN- We've got tons of examples, tons of things you can show off. Unfortunately, on your landing page, well, there's no link to the documentation from your landing page. DAN GALPIN- That's actually intentional, because it is a B2B. It's the documentation. DAN G whole thing is like, there's no reason. What you want to do is sell them up front. This is what you get. This is the actual product. Even if you're a B2B, let's say, you're an API, you're some sort of app, that would not be an excuse not to show screenshots of the application. You also have to think about how do people buy services like this? And it's going to be someone at the bottom level who's a developer who's like, hey, I need to solve a problem, searches for, like, whatever problem it is. And, like, your documentation is going to be rich with stuff that's going to easily be findable. But also you can start looking at it really quick. It's like, okay, you know what? I think this is what I sort of need. Now I'll go in and sign up and, like, how to use their API and connect to all this stuff. This is an example of something that developers could build. Right, so in the top right, every page, you can download a JSON format of this particular page, and on the HTML, if you just change that to .json, it'll be the JSON implementation of that page. So now I've brought in an example here, a demo example. What should I press? I should hit activate, correct? Luckily that was the only button that I saw, so I did hit it. And then it brings in essentially fake data. And it says 13 bills over 96 time intervals. And then I really didn't know what to do here. I clicked on PDF and actually saw, oh, there's a demo bill, and that's really what you want to get users to. I think the key takeaway here is just in that workflow, it really took a long time to get, just to see the conclusion. And users will do 1 10th of the effort that we did to try to understand it. Yeah, exactly. And then the last thing here is the actual documentation done very well. So, or as well as I think like... I would do everything you can to put that front and center and use that as your selling point. Yeah. All right. We're out of time. That's all. Thank you, guys. Wonderful. Thank you. Thanks, guys. There we go. Thank you. Thanks for coming up here.