 How did this particular research project get started? This particular research started after various other studies looking into the effects of psilocybin on the brain and LSD on the brain. And this was the work of Robin Carhart-Harris, who his interest came out of his own psychoanalytic studies and his also work as a neuroscientist and he was very interested in how we can explore the unconscious mind because so much of our behavior is controlled by the unconscious mind and yeah it's very difficult to study scientifically and psychoanalysis is very it's almost seen as more of an art than a science so he wanted to find ways in of looking at the brain, the unconscious mind. And he started studying psychedelics with David Nutz. So David Nutz is a quite well-known professor in this country for his activism in legalizing drugs. He worked for the government. He was the drug czar so he um he informed them or advised them about the scientific harms of different drugs and how they should be scheduled or you know where they should be in the schedule of illegal drugs and he was sacked very famously because he his scientific report stated that mdma was less dangerous than horse riding. Okay. So he was sacked for that. And he has gone on to be a real innovator in drugs policy and drugs research, just recognizing that lots of the drugs that are illegal might hold potential for healing, whereas alcohol and cigarettes that are legal really don't. So it's time for a more free-thinking approach. So it was David and Robin together that started this research and it was very difficult for them because there's so much red tape around this because since it was made illegal in seven early 70s it's been very hard to get a license from the home office to do this research but once they once they'd work on through the process yeah it became easier for them to then do another study in another study so they've really been on a roll they did some studies looking at the effects of psilocybin and lsd on the brain and then they realized that they the findings that they had indicated to them that it was time to start looking at psilocybin with the clinical population and the key finding was that um psilocybin seems to deactivate the part of your mind or brain that is responsible for ruminating for for negative thinking on a loop so they realized that for people with depression this could be really really powerful so they this the study um that i have was involved in was a clinical study looking at 20 people with treatment resistant depression and it was the first study of its kind in the uk and there have been some studies in the us looking at psilocybin with people with depression and anxiety secondary to a diagnosis of a terminal illness okay so are these the studies that were happening in the 60s and 70s or are there more recent recent work so in the 60s and 70s there were well in the 50s 60s and 70s there were hundreds and thousands of studies yeah and the findings were really very positive and it would all look great and then it was became illegal and then the research just dropped away but then it started again in the early 2000s i think maybe 2006 around that time and maybe slightly earlier than that and some of the people that had been involved in psychedelic research in the 60s started to say oh we really you know we really need these tools they were really working we need to get them back again and i think um so bill richards who's a psychologist had been working in one of the clinics in the u.s so the maryland psychiatrics center okay had this um had this clinic there there are some good youtube videos showing people having lsd sessions so you can see the kind of the psychiatrist sitting there with a with a woman who is um on on her lsd trip and they yeah they basically realized that it was time to go again so they they kind of galvanized their team got a new group together and started started up again and this was just like these drugs had existed at the university and they just had a store of them or they lobbied to to make this happen how did it go so how did they actually get the substance so i think that there are there are various companies now that are synthesizing synthesizing psilocybin and they can provide it to researchers with a license to use these schedule 1 drugs. But in order to use them in a study you usually need it to be GMP grade which means it's kind of very pure and able to be used. It's gone through lots of testing. need it to be GMP grade, which means it's kind of very pure and able to be used. It's gone through lots of testing. So there are very few providers of GMP psilocybin. So it takes a lot of the difficulty of doing this research isn't just the bureaucracy cutting through the red tape, getting the licenses, the lack of funding, because the governments obviously don't often want to fund this. But it's also actually getting the psilocybin and getting enough of it and getting that that's stable and being tested yeah and and so what clued you into the fact that it was working with depression and versus you know some other trait that it might affect well i think it will be helpful for so many different mental health difficulties but with depression it's this the the ruminating quality of depression the the fixation on certain ideas and concerns so psilocybin and psychedelics seem to be very good at when when people are stuck in a very fixed pattern of thinking or of living psychedelics can break that pattern they can provide this state of when you look at the the images of brain communication pathways they go from this kind of kind of segmented lines to this full-on explosion where things that parts of the brain that don't talk to each other all talk to each other and suddenly there's this um flexibility so i'm curious about what the experience is for the following days but i think before we jump in we should talk about like what one of these sessions actually looks like yes in the last study there was a low dose and a high dose session the low dose session was 10 milligrams and the high dose was 25 and they look pretty different these sessions so a low dose session so firstly the setting is that people would come into the clinic and they will have had some sessions with their guides beforehand so everybody has two guides they're clinicians therapists and they get to know the participant quite well you have some sessions where you just share about their lives and hear their story and you tell them a bit about yourself and it's quite a nice human equal relationship very respectful and quite different to some doctor patient kind of have you done both like both type of relationships yes okay yeah all right yeah very different yeah so i suppose if i was working in the nh NHS as a therapist with lots of patients. And there you're so busy. You have, you know, seven people coming every day. And there is this huge, there's this huge need. And often you don't really have the tools to help people because often talking therapy doesn't really work especially if you can only offer people six sessions so you you you're aware that people have this need and that they're they're so they're so desperate and in crisis and there's not much you can do so in a way what that happens is you put your barriers down you put your boundaries down it's like this is what i can do this is what i can't do and you you keep yourself you keep yourself a bit separate and what happens to those people they have to go private so well i i guess these are usually people that really wouldn't have the money to go privately so they just they come for their sessions and you give them what you can but you can only give them six sessions so there's this sense of um of it not being enough yeah and it's hard for them and it's hard for you and it's hard for everybody there and then they will often get antidepressants because that's something that the doctor can easily prescribe and it feels like it's doing something but then often that doesn't work either okay um and are antidepressants prescribed at the same rate that they are in the us here in the uk they're prescribed incredibly frequently so i think last year was our record number of antidepressant prescriptions there was 64.7 million prescriptions in the uk for antidepressants last year how many people live in the uk i don't know but it's i mean it's it's a lot more people than you would imagine yeah is it yes it's a huge huge use of antidepressants that isn't really talked about very much and um you know as a short-term thing to get people through a crisis time i think sometimes it can be really helpful and for some people it works but for a lot of people it's a short-term fix it doesn't really change the causes of the depression okay doesn't really there's a root cause something's not right and it's not it's not addressing that okay so in in these like psilocybin sessions yeah you you more you're just like having a conversation like you would between friends before you get going so someone gets comfortable with you so you you you feel really comfortable so yeah you are you are you're more you're going through something together you're on a journey together you know and you've been through all the different things that can happen and how to manage the session and oh so it's sort of like a q a as well so i show up and i'm like okay like here we go yeah so so you would have a couple of sessions beforehand to get to know each other okay and then you would tell me about your life story and the difficult things that had happened and the things that you were scared would come up because they often do so all the things you don't want to talk about might well come up so all the taboos you talk about sex and death and you know all the things that people hide in their closets and then when that's all being openly talked about then you're ready to go and they come into the the clinic they have the capsules on the low dose session it's just two capsules and then they sit there with their two guides in a room that's full of nice decoration so it's in a hospital but it doesn't look like a hospital room and they have a playlist of really beautiful music that's been specially designed for this experience and then they sit there through the day and on a 10 milligram dose you would see tend to see more psychodynamic stuff so internal exploration people feeling more emotional feeling that they maybe get some insight into different parts of their life and often there's struggle because the the amount of psilocybin is their their ego is still intact there's still a there is still an eye there there is still a you would still be there knowing who you are but just more in touch with the stuff that's going on down below that you don't often think about so the the stuff that's being pushed away so in other words you can you can kind of put a finger on it and you can identify it but you don't you don't let go of it or how would you put it so the difference between a 10 milligram dose and a 25 milligram dose usually is that a 25 milligram dose is so high yeah that it will completely that you can't resist it so with a 10 milligram dose so okay imagine a bit like this with 10 milligrams imagine you've got this um cellar do you use the web cellar in the u.s yeah basement basement you've got a basement and in the basement there are all the skeletons and the monsters and the things that you have pushed away. And what psilocybin does is it can open the door of that stuff so that you can process it, so that you can go through those things and be freer of them as you go forward in your life. And it's not just the monsters that are down there. There's also loads of other really amazing things, but it's intense. And it can feel a bit like taking the psilocybin is a bit like kind of opening that door and you have to let go and surrender to whatever is coming up you have to be there and welcome it with 10 milligrams it opens it a little bit and so the things come out and you might be having a conversation with a dead parent or you might be thinking about a relationship that ended and it's like a very intense turbocharged therapy session but you can fight it you can kind of put the lid down you can decide you don't want to do it with 25 milligrams yeah you can't fight it you can't say i don't want to deal with this i've decided i don't want to it's open everything comes out and you just have to surrender and just trust in the process and your role as a psychologist what are you doing throughout yeah i know in a 10 and a 25 milligram session helping people surrender helping people face the things that are difficult helping people sit through the pain of it um by being encouraging that that's the right thing to do that they're safe people sometimes feel that they're dying because when the ego is deactivated that's quite common because when your ego is deactivated you have no sense of self and sometimes that's a beautiful experience i mean what when i talk about the you know the the basement being opened it sounds like it's always really difficult it's often a really beautiful experience for people or often there'll be a bit of both but but when when you die on a psychedelic experience when you when you have an ego death that can either feel like oh i'm at one with the planet i am the plants and the trees i am everything or it can feel like i'm physically being killed i'm dying really so you experience physical pain yeah okay sometimes and you're just saying to them you're okay like you're you're this is exactly what you came here to do you know this is all this is it's counterintuitive yeah you know if you feel that you're going mad great go mad if you feel like you're dying go die if you're exploding let's see what it's like to explode it's about in a way the whole concept of mindfulness and meditation is about allowing things in and just sitting with them rather than distracting or pushing them away or trying to always be kind of achieving or feeling good but never feeling your feelings and it's about that it's about it's like turbocharged mindfulness it's whatever is here let it be here don't fight it don't push it away don't try and nullify these negative emotions do sadness do suffering fully and is there like is there a certain vocabulary that you train someone in before they get going i just wonder if like if someone is more precise with their language does that affect the experience or is it kind of open to anyone interesting well often the experience has had this noetic quality which means that they're beyond words you can't put them into words so i think really people's kind of okay it doesn't really matter if you go beyond that you go to a different level beyond that often um but we do talk to them a little bit we don't prepare them for any kind of experience because we don't want to prime them in any way so we just say you might have if you feel that you're dying that that that's okay. You're not actually physically dying. We'll look after you. It's all fine. But we don't really prepare them because we just don't know where they're going to go. So we just, the main preparation is just surrender. That's the one word, surrender. And both, are both other people in the room psychologists or they serve different roles? So there's, in our next study that's just about to start we're going to have one lead guide and then one assistant guide it's a kind of training program a way of people that can get experience and then there'll also be the psychiatrist that's not in the room most of the time but is on site if we need him and then yeah so okay and so are you taking notes are you just hanging out what do you do um last time we would take a book in with us sometimes because there's a lot of time when they just got the earphones in, the eye shades on, and they're just lying back on the bed and so there's just silence for a long time. But this time I think we're going to try not to do that because actually it's just good to be there fully with them even though it's a long day. It's like six hours that they might be on this experience but just really just just being with them and and seeing the subtle changes and listening to the music and being the moment you know that's so great and so the people that have participated in the study so far do they have any shared qualities or traits like what how does someone end up in this study well so in the in the last study, people had treatment-resistant depression. So it meant that they tried at least two different types of treatments that hadn't worked. Yeah. So I would say when I think back of those 20 people, they weren't all psychedelic enthusiasts. A couple of them had tried it before, but like 20 years ago. And actually, the one that had tried it before had had a terrible LSD experience. So he was really put off by it yeah so the the um expectations about psychedelics were quite negative in many ways um or there was a lot of anxiety around them but i guess also that maybe people had access to some media coverage of the positive possibilities of psilocybin so it was a bit mixed there were some expectations it might help them but they were scared about how they were going to get to that good outcome right well because they've all opted in to the same yeah they've all opted in but the reason they opted in i think this is all of them is because they were absolutely desperate for something that was going to help them they had tried everything they'd had depression for an average of 18 years and they tried between i think three and eleven types of antidepressants imagine trying 11 types of antidepressants. Imagine trying 11 types of antidepressants. And every time you go and your doctor gives you a different packet and they have side effects and they take weeks to work and they don't, and then they don't help you 11 types. So, and they'd also had like lots and lots of talking therapy up to six different courses of talking therapy. So these are people that they would try anything for some of them it was like ect was the next option which is the electric shock therapy of the brain so people were like well i'll try this and then if this doesn't work i'll try ect because it's either this or i can't carry on living like this it's either this or i'm out and is ect proven to be effective well in, in some very severe cases, it might help some people. But there's also cognitive problems as a result of it. It can lead to severe cognitive difficulties and memory loss. I mean, I think sometimes it works for people, but it's really the last resort. And so are these, before you start taking psilocybin, say you're taking these antidepressants, they're super common, way too common in the US. Are there long-term effects of taking these medications? Because I know so many people are also manipulating their brain who don't necessarily have depression. You know, they're taking nootropics, they're taking these focused drugs or whatever it might be. Have you found there to be any long-term effects? With psilocybin? Not psilocybin. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. The research into the effect of antidepressant drugs often is very short-term. It looks at them for a very short period of time without much follow-up. Yeah. Because that serves the purposes of the people making these drugs. So I don't know of long-term follow-up research all i know about is there was experiences of people that i've spoken to so in my clinical work as a clinical psychologist seeing people saying they're just you know they make me feel worse often people would say they made them feel worse and often in terms of the long term i think with antidepressants if they work well for people then they keep taking them if they don't work then they stop taking them so we would be interested in the long-term effects of antidepressants for people for whom they are effective but i suppose for those people for whom they are affected they're a complete lifeline so um yeah i don't know about the research on that well okay yeah i don't understand it to the same degree as you do but is it is it common for someone if they do find uh an antidepressant to be effective yeah to maintain use forever it is quite common for people to use it for a long time yeah so for example one of our participants had been on antidepressants even though they hadn't really helped him they helped him a little bit so the way he described it was like the life was really unbearable and the antidepressants took off the peaks and the troughs so the highs of the highs the lows of the lows so just made the range a bit more bearable so even though he still felt very very depressed they kind of kept him going he wouldn't say they worked but he took them anyway because when he and the real reason this is the real thing that i do and he gets talked about enough the real reason i think so often people stay on the antidepressants is because when they try and go off them it's awful so there was this one participant who'd been on antidepressants even though they hadn't worked for 20 years and in our study people have to come off their antidepressants in order to participate. Okay. Because it really, psilocybin is not nearly as effective if you're on antidepressants. It really takes the... I mean, it takes the highs and the lows. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. It stops it from working, essentially. Coming off his antidepressants before the study, he was in, he was tearful the whole time. People described electric shocks going off in their brain, bedwetting sometimes. That was somebody else. And how long are they off of these before they take psilocybin? Well, for some people, you have to withdraw them for quite a while. You can't go into a psilocybin session when someone's so turbulent. So that was a shock for us. One of the big shock findings was, oh my goodness me, withdrawing from antidepressants for these people was absolute hell often and so i think that's why some people could stay on them because coming off is too difficult yeah but then a lot of people so we can talk about obviously the effects of the psilocybin but it seems to for most people last for about two or three months and then the depression starts to come back and i think that's because for lots of reasons but partly because we didn't this isn't psychedelic therapy so we're not giving people um integration really we're not giving people the full package what is integration so a psychedelic intervention has to have three sections preparation the session itself and integration okay preparation is as we've talked about getting used to how it's going to be getting to know each other, the trust, building the trust. The session itself is about surrender, being there together. And then the integration is about the participant themselves weaving a narrative about what on earth they have just seen and gone through. They may have had mystical, spiritual experiences. They may have had experiences of dying, of amazing insights into their life. It's a weird and wonderful world okay and they need to piece it together in a way that makes sense to them so that when they in the months and years that follow they know what that experience means and it helps them live their life because there's no use in having this incredible opening if you then go back to your same old life right so what psychedelics do is they give you this window of opportunity so um okay so like if you imagine like so this is one of my colleagues analogy i'm stealing it from him if you imagine like a snowy mountain and then and you go sledging and you go sledging down the same track and you always go so when there's a track in the snow it gets deeper and deeper and deeper anytime you go down that mountain you're going into the same track because it's just the groove is getting deeper and deeper if you imagine that as your mind in depression you go through the same thoughts ruminating about the same things worthlessness whatever it is whatever your ruminations are just sticking in that rigid pattern people describe it as like a mental prison they're stuck in the same old patterns and then with psilocybin or psychedelics it's like you've got this this mountain with this like deep deep ridges that you always get out and then with psilocybin it's like a snowplow that just comes across and wipes everything through so in this state of brain connectedness or the entropic brain or the integrated brain however you want to talk about it it's this it kind of wipes it clean not that it doesn't like wipe your brain clean in the sense that it takes everything out of it but it just provides this opportunity of flexibility and then you can kind of sledge anywhere you want to go so after a psychedelic experience people have this window of feeling really often really fantastic for for a number of weeks or even months and this flexibility i can i can try this i can try this try new things and so if in that window of opportunity they start new habits they change their relationships they make those life changes then we think that it can really last long the effect can last longer but if you just give someone a psychedelic and you don't encourage them to make the most of the window of opportunity then what we found with our participants is that depression came back after three months or so i mean it makes sense right your your life is already structured in such a way it's not like your memory is wiped clean so you kind of fall into your habits as you would absolutely interesting okay so let's go into the actual effects right so what are i mean let's be specific right actual effects, right? So what are, I mean, let's be specific, right? So without sharing anyone's name, like what have some things, what's happened? What's happened? So of our 20, well, the first thing to say is that they all said that they would prefer it to any other treatment they tried. Three of them didn't have a real effect from it but they still even though it hadn't really worked for them they still felt that the whole something about the process was very different to normal you know it's different from getting a pack of pills it's you're sitting there you're talking to people you're getting to know them they're listening to your life story it's very human and all of these people had had therapy before yeah okay so it was even different from that it's different to talking therapy yeah yeah this this difference in the relationship it's not the the therapist sitting there and kind of trying to help but not really having time to help it's like there's something different about the way you you go into it together it's the there's a there's a bond you develop a bond even if it wasn't effective for them there's something powerful about that therapeutic bond because it's quite different to how we how we do things in this in our culture it's yeah there's a different philosophy yeah i mean i've heard it frequently mentioned in the context of couples like having these like experiences where they you know they take mushrooms or whatever it might be and um for whatever reason they can like work through something or like people who work together take it together or all these things and it's it's not the same thing it's like let's have a coffee and yes exactly there's something and there's something about the bravery of you're going through this unknown thing together yeah there's something inherently bonding about that so so yeah so for three people it didn't work they didn't have a psychedelic experience in that they didn't really see anything even though they're on the high the same dose as everyone else and we've got some ideas about where that might be and but we need more research to really work it out so three of them it didn't work then for six of them at the sixth month follow-up they were still depression free so for six of them at the six month follow-up they were still depression free so for six of them it really really it was you know life-changing incredible yeah yeah amazing thing and then we've we've stayed in touch with people now so that we know that actually of those those six people for most of them the the depression did start to come back at some point around the year point but that some of them have had their own follow-up treatments okay so they have managed to keep themselves well through finding because if you've tried something that works and you want to try and find a way of accessing it again so they found places in the world where you can legally have it again uh okay so but they need someone with them at for the second third well so let me tell you about the other 11 and then when i've done that i'll go to those so six of them they were still well after six months three of them it didn't work and then for 11 of them and this is uh yes the majority of them they were really well for three months depression free or very mild symptoms of depression but then after three months the depression started to come back again and didn't go quite back to how they had been before for most of them but they the depression came back so what's been really hard for us is to have these people so 17 out of 20 and these are people that nothing has worked for for years and years and years 17 out of 20 people come and they have these experiences and it's just a day you know it's not even that complicated you they take some capsules and they sit there for a day with you and they feel better for months and months and months and they are their partners say they have a sparkle in their eye that they haven't had for decades they're starting new hobbies they're playing with their children more it's beautiful to see and then the depression starts to come back and then you have to say to them i'm really sorry but we can't give you another session because we're a research study with no funding our You know, we all work for free all the time. We all, you know, cut corners in every way we can because we don't, there is no money here. Our team is, we're based on the funding of one incredibly generous donor. And apart from that, we don't have funding really. So we're so financially constrained that we, the budget that we do have, we need to use on forward, bringing this research forward. Right. that we the budget that we do have we need to use on forward bringing this research forward right so we have an obligation to people with depression everywhere to to get this treatment available to them so our next study we're going to be looking at um psilocybin versus antidepressants we're going to be comparing them and that's an important thing to do but we're spending all of our budget that we have on that study which means that we just cannot give sessions to the previous people because if we did we wouldn't be able to do the next study right so we have to say to them we said to them from the beginning we we can't give you follow-up doses we we have to keep forward in our research we can't so it's incredibly difficult and ethically hard to open people's eyes to something that works one one person said it was like turning on the lights in a dark house and then it's like the lights fade again but they they still say that you know now they've tried something that worked they have the hope that they can access it again and some some of them have been able to access it again man yeah i mean it it totally makes sense it's like anything it's like exercise right if you if i were to go on a run every three months and that would be all I needed to stay in shape, that would be amazing. So it's incredibly effective. But it also makes sense that you have to keep at it. And so are they swapping it out for, you know, like people talk about going on these like ayahuasca retreats and, you know, you list the other comparables. So the only legal way of having this experience is there's a couple of places where mushrooms are legal and they're retreats, but they're very far away on the other side of the world. And there are places in Europe where you can have ayahuasca ceremonies. And then there's South America. So it's very difficult and you require it. It's the people with money. You need cash. Yeah. So a couple of our participants were able to access those um but the rest of them have not been able to okay so it's and is it common for them to get back onto the antidepressants or what are they trying to do a lot of them have stayed off the antidepressants really yeah but some of them have gone back on just because they say oh i just you know i need something to help me get through. You know, it's just life is just really tough because, you know, things happen and someone's farm got flooded. And there's this kind of life happens and people when they're suffering from depression, they just they need something. And that's the only thing that's available at the moment. So could you walk me through? I haven't been to therapy of any kind for me. I probably should but like uh well um walk me through like the how the conversation might flow because i just kind of would like some context yeah so the conversation in the actual session itself yeah okay so on a high dose session it would be quite you would expect it's different time, so you just really don't know, but it would be quite common, I guess, to have the participant is lying there and I'm sitting there and sometimes holding their hand if they're going through something painful, sometimes not, so sometimes just sitting there. And for a lot of the time, it's silence. And in their world, they're battling things crying and and what you see is very little that they're just lying there um so it's very internalized often but then sometimes they might say oh this you know i don't want to go there i'm not i can't they're kind of struggling with something and so you're just helping them to kind of face whatever is there and then sometimes people are having a kind of struggling with something. And so you're just helping them to kind of face whatever is there. And then sometimes people are having a kind of rebirth experience. You're a bit more like a midwife than a therapist. You know, there's kind of noises and sounds and you're reassuring, but you're not really in an intellectual conversation because getting into the mind is, we want to get out of the mind and into the heart and into the body. So, so as soon as you start, oh, what is that? What does it look like? What is it? Then you're back in the mind. And the brilliant thing about psychedelics is that they turn off that kind of ego, frontal parts, and you can go into the body and into the heart. So you've had to totally retrain yourself. That's completely against everything you studied, I imagine. And so are you asking different kinds of questions or is it just encouragement? Honestly, it's love. It's just love. It really is. That sounds really ridiculous, but when you boil it down, that's what it is. So it's presence. It's presence and it's love. And to me, they're kind of the same thing in that when you're there, in the same way as when you're well i think actually my own like experience of having a baby and looking after a small child which has happened alongside it so i was doing guiding in my maternity leave so i had a like three month old baby at home and i was going you know okay and for the first time when i first started doing this work and now she's nearly three and so I think my parenting work or my mothering is actually probably something that helps me the most and understanding what the the presence that is needed doesn't mean that it can't be men as well men and women both you know can bring that kind of I guess it's a kind of like unconditional well the humanistic psychologist used to talk about unconditional positive regard which is a kind of a broad approach of just whatever you do i accept you and but it's kind of one step further because when you're seeing people going through this kind of pain you do feel a sense of like love in a different way just human human it's not like falling in love with patients it's like a human compassion and feeling of shared humanity together and a feeling of you're just so you're just so with them and it's like and they're vulnerable they're vulnerable so they're like they they you know there's there's just something special about that kind of therapeutic relationship it's very different yeah and so as someone who's been on the other side of therapy like traditional what what is your experience how does it contrast well so i did some research into this and i interviewed people and i from the study and i asked them to compare it to the previous therapy they'd had and it was it was in a way it did really surprise me because i'd been doing like cbt you know it's kind of like behavior cognitive behavioral therapy for years and as my that was my practice and and i thought it had been kind of helpful ish i mean i always knew that it wasn't really that helpful and people weren't always getting better but it was kind of helpful but what people in our study said was that once they'd had the psilocybin they'd experienced what it was like to have something that was kind of a different kind of relationship they looked back on the talking therapy they'd had and just felt that it was quite and i think they'd had bad experiences it's not always like this i know i mean i have colleagues that are brilliant therapists and i know that their part of their clients wouldn't feel this way but sometimes it can be really directive so it's like i've studied all this i know what the theory is i know what the model is this links to this links to this and we have all these diagrams that we learn when you're trained to be a clinical psychologist of like eating disorder ocd depression and you have all these arrows it's like this happens here here here so you've got like the like the kind of you know you've got the system in your head yeah it's like you are infj this is what you do exactly and i've got to get you to here and there's quite a lot of pressure on you to get them there um and you you do this thing called socratic questioning which is this technique um where you kind of know what the answer is but you need to make the person feel that they're getting to the answer so it's oh but i wonder what what would happen it but it's directive because you're trying to get them somewhere you think you know the answer and you're the therapist right and you're the one that trained and you're the expert and they're coming to see you and with psilocybin it's completely different because the expert is themselves they are the expert because what's happening the the healing power of this is something in the unconscious mind their own unconscious mind is writing itself there's a homeostatic principle at play here i'm sure of it so that whatever things if you think of your body as a system your body and mind as a system your whatever things need dealing with whatever problems there are in the system forget our manual of abcd whatever is actually going on in this holistic system the psilocybin helps just kind of goes there somehow so the unconscious mind is incredibly intelligent and knows where which parts of the system are a bit weak or a bit faulty and which need changing so it can fix the glitches in the system somehow and this is this kind of brain connectivity all the parts are talking to each other so it's like almost this kind of scanning process of like okay we've got all the information where where do we need to go to so what that means in terms of the relationship is that there's complete respect for them because they are the ones that are going on their own journey you can't't go on it for them. Yeah. So it's not directive in any way. We have no idea where they're going to go. I have no, so say you were coming for a session, I would have no idea really about what would be the right thing. Whenever I tried to have ideas when I first started, they were always wrong because the person's own mind is infinitely more intelligent than I am. Right. Well, I mean, they just know themselves. They know themselves. Exactly. You're in a constant conversation with yourself. One thing I always wondered about therapy, having known a bunch of people that have gone through it, is that matchmaking process? Yeah. Because I've often met someone who's a therapist and they're like, I don't know if you're the right fit for me. Yeah. Do you find that to be a real thing or is that just like my own resistance to like not wanting to do it it's a very important point for absolutely for talking therapy especially if it's long kind of longer term talking therapy when you're going weekly for someone for maybe a year or something or a couple of years so key that that relationship yeah all the work is done within that relationship but with psychedelics the work is really really done on the inside so i think the match is important in the sense that if there was a dislike there you know we all meet people that sometimes for whatever reason they activate something in us that makes us think about someone we don't like or if there was a dislike and there wasn't trust that would be a problem so the the participant and the guide have to trust each other really really trust each other. But that, you know, that's usually, it's usually okay. As long as you kind of, obviously not all therapists would be guides. It takes a particular kind of approach. Not needing to be the expert, not needing to talk about stuff in an intellectual way, being comfortable with emotions, being comfortable with not knowing knowing being comfortable with being a loving presence and patient you know it's not something that is going to suit all therapists not everyone and not all people would be kind of would really trust the process enough to be able to go through it some people might be quite suspicious of it or just not really feel it was right for them so it's not right for everybody okay but for the people through our screening process the people that we we had come through and and the therapist that we had it it was tended to be fine yeah i can think of one person i think who wasn't fully trusting and of his guides before it went through and actually he had a good outcome but i think he could have done with a few more sessions beforehand. Yep. But usually the trust is there. But beyond that trust, I don't think the matching matters. Because in the session, okay, say I've got issues with my mother. It might be that when I go and have talking therapy, I might want to go and see a woman maybe to work through that relationship. And I might want someone kind of my mum's age and it might you know maybe maybe not sure those kind of factors don't really matter in psychedelics because you're going to be going through your month if you've got an issue with your mother you're going to maybe be going through that in your session perhaps if that's the area that the scanning process decides is most relevant but you're going to be doing it yourself you might be face to face with your mother in the session yeah but it's not the guides aren't there to take part in the psychodrama they're the work isn't done with them they're just they're just kind of nice people helping you be there they're not they're not so much part of the healing okay yeah it's a very different process with talking therapy i always my concern was that i was just going to look for confirmation yes and so I would look for someone that's so close that it just like wouldn't necessarily break through. And that's the other thing, great thing about psychedelics as well, actually, is that I think sometimes, and actually I can own this from being an exhausted psychotherapist in the NHS, seeing lots of people. By the time the eighth person came through the door on a Friday, I was so exhausted. I might not remember their notes and i might sit there and what i would fall back on is just being nice you know being a nice kind person like i i hear you and i'm there for you but when i talk about the love of a psychedelic session yeah it's like a tough love i mean it's the um there's no nice about it as a guide you're like you're sometimes pushing them to face really difficult things and the psilocybin experience itself is often extremely confronting yeah so there's no like platitudes or confirmation of like yeah you're doing great you keep going no but but then like i mean you you've seen it right there's there's kind of this this period where it works and then it stops working. Well, I mean, the long-term effects aren't necessarily there. How are you thinking about setting someone up for success? Like you have another study coming out. What are you going to do to get someone on the right track? I mean, if someone gave me like a license to use psilocybin legally and loads of money then i i guarantee you i can set up something that would um well we all you know loads of people work in this field we all have idea i mean we know we've we've working on the work of the the people that were doing this decades and decades ago sure um and there are loads of different models that we think would be really useful to mix together like various psychological models that actually lend themselves really well for this and meditation is the key thing like mixing meditation and this so in a perfect world i think it would be seen as something that it's it's a journey it's a long journey into the deepest deepest parts of yourself and from that place you're hoping to find a self-acceptance a self-knowing a self-love that enable you to radically transform your relationships with yourself, with other people and the world around you. So that was the theme that came out of my research looking at the outcomes was that people felt more connected to themselves, to other people in the world around them. So I would look at things that help people continue that process. So it would start off with the prep phase. It would go into the sessions. And then the integration would be something that help people maintain their learning and maintain a sense of community, stay connected to other people. And a sense of meaning in the world. Like we're not just doing it in a vacuum. and a sense of a sense of meaning in the world like we're not just doing it in a vacuum there's there's there's a there's people have real insights about their values and about the way the world should be and the way the world is and they change their behavior in line with it so things to help people continue with that and it's not the therapist saying because that's the other thing i would do is in talking therapy before i would say we need to set some goals what things are important to you let's set these goals and the feedback I got from the participants in our study was that they didn't like when they had that kind of thing before they didn't like it because it was someone's kind of telling them what kind of goal to have and they would feel that they would fail at them and it would just make them feel worse and who knows what the right goal is but with this psychedelic experience people can they come up with this strangest most unpredictable goals because actually what you thought was right for someone wasn't going to be right but they get this idea that what i really need to do is a b and c so it would be supporting people to maintain those insights and new goals but the key thing as well it wouldn't be like a kind of one session then you're okay forever it would be i think it would be the long journey would be one where people might have a psilocybin experience every six months they might have a period where they had like four six months apart and then they're okay for like 10 years and then they might come for a top up but it would be very individually decided upon like you'd work out with someone if they needed another session or not but it's an it's not it's a life journey you know it would be something that they would then um for deep self-reflection through different life stages so maybe someone you know in their 30s they would have three sessions and then feel feel pretty well in their 30s and 40s and then then 60 they retire and things get really difficult they're having to recalibrate things and they come back for another psychedelic session and they go back inside and they so i'd see it's an ongoing thing so that that like confidence to make a change is is change a more common thing what with versus talking therapy rather than like is it is talking therapy more conducive to like this is kind of um not it's not the exact word but like coping like this is like you have this certain situation you're gonna be able to deal with it in such a way versus uh psilocybin therapy where someone might be like i can't do this anymore i'm gonna become a painter or something like that is that a difference that's an interesting one i don't think it's quite so certain types of talking therapy are more like so cbt and things like that short-term therapies are more about coping coping strategies helping people kind of keep going the situation they're in whereas things-term therapies, are more about coping, coping strategies, helping people kind of keep going in the situation they're in. Whereas things like psychoanalysis are more about deep internal change, like understanding the unconscious mind and how it's affecting your behavior and making deep changes. But it takes many, many years to get to that. So I'd say psychedelics are a bit more like psychoanalysis in that it's learning to understand yourself much much better in a in a very deep way and making changes and whereas the psychoanalysis it might be a bit more gradual that people might get to know each other much better over say 10 years of analysis and many many thousands and thousands of pounds spent on it they might start to understand themselves better and make those changes with psychedelics it can suddenly seem a bit more yeah you know revolutionary yeah but we do encourage people after a session not to make any big changes for a couple of weeks okay just to let it sit and percolate and yeah because people often say i want to change my job or i want to do this right and in our sample of 20 people, people did make changes, new jobs, did things they'd been frightened of for a long time, changed relationships. People did make big life changes. But, yeah, we do encourage caution. And so for the people who don't necessarily have access to, you know, traveling to South America or participating in your session what do you advise them to do I mean you've mentioned meditation before we talked about it before we even started recording like that seems pretty important yeah yeah what do you tell them you can access these states without psychedelic drugs psychedelic drugs are just one way of accessing these dates um breathwork holotropic breathwork is was developed by stan groff so after psychedelics were made illegal stan groff had been working in psilocybin and lsd research in the states in the same place as bill richard so i mentioned before for um for decades and then when they became illegal he developed with his wife this other technique to enable people to get to the same state yep um so you can do holotropic breathwork workshops um we're actually we're doing training for our new therapists um this week and on saturday we're all going to be doing a holotropic breathwork workshop together because it's a legal way of inducing those experiences meditation like deep deep meditation practice it might take a long time to get there but you you can access very, very similar states as well. And also, yeah, in a way that it's easier. Psychedelic experience can be really, well, it's hard to find. And then even if you do find it, you access it. It's even for the people in our study or at a ceremony, it's intense and hard and draining. Whereas meditation, you can start small and build up and you can fit it in your day and i've i've had a meditation experience that was fully expansive and i've only had one ever may never have another one but it was enough to make me know that this is serious you know in the same way that psychedelics they if they deactivate the default mode network which is your kind of ego structure you know the brain base of the ego meditation does that too it quietens down that mental control okay the monkey mind yeah it's quieting the monkey mind that's all i would say really we're doing with psychedelics and with meditation and then what about maintaining the change maintaining the desire to change? With, you mean with meditation or just generally? I mean, all of the above. I'm thinking, yeah, from the perspective. Because, like, the reality is that most people listening or watching or whatever, like, probably won't go through this process. But I think almost everyone knows that feeling. Yes. Of, like, I, there's this book, The War of Art. Have you ever read it before? No. It there's this book, The War of Art. Have you ever read it before? No. It's by an author, Steven Pressfield, and he talks about resistance and oftentimes the resistance to push through to really go for your creative project or whatever it might be. Because so often people deep down kind of know the thing that they want to be working on, but there's a fear or there's a pressure. There are a million reasons to not do that thing yeah um so yeah i guess i'm just kind of curious if if you often recommend like a book or a certain thing to someone i think getting connected is the thing i think that's what um when you when you when you deactivate the kind of the thing that keeps you trapped yeah and you can get down to your real when you when you turn off the kind of the mind or the ego however you do that whether it's meditation or walking in nature whatever you do you turn that off and you get down to your i would call it your soul but your space of who i really am that little voice inside you that knows what it really wants to do when you know what it is that your life is about or the thing that's going to make you feel meaning and feel happy and feel that you have a purpose that then don't let go of that for anything but that the way to the way to make that happen is to is to get connected because it's very easy to you know we're trapped in our head and we're in our culture in the west we're very very disconnected from each other and from ourselves most of the time kind of whatever addictions we've got whether it's netflix or you know beer or whatever we're just kind of like operating this frenzy kind of hamster wheel existence when you turn that all off and you get down into what you who you really are you you need to honor that so the theme as i said before about what psychedelics do is make you more connected to yourself others and world around you that is the thing that's that's kind of my motto anyway of like connection to myself what's my connection to myself how am i nourishing myself how am i listening to that voice how am i prioritizing that voice over the other chatter of the world connection to others it's difficult to achieve anything on your own but finding your tribe finding the other people that you were going to do this with whatever your dream is find other people that you're going to you're going to do it together and then connecting to the world is really just yeah kind of thinking about what what it means and the ethical roots of what you're doing and the value systems and helping it spread wider and wider. So connectivity. I mean, the interesting thing about mushrooms, in a forest, you've got all the different trees. And like, I think two thirds of the forest is underground. You can see one third of it, which is like the trees, but two thirds of it is underground. It's like the roots that go down and the way trees communicate with each other is through mycelium and mycelium is mushroom it's fungus so the whole of the forest communicates through this layer of mushroom so i think mushroom is a great it's a great connector and you can think about that analogy really if you imagine like um you imagine yourself as a tree okay and you've got your you've got your trunk which is your connection to yourself and if you've got your branches which is your um your kind of your ideas going out and then you've got your roots and you've got this layer of mycelium and you're connected to all these other people and so to make your tree grow really strong, it's about, yeah, your place in the forest. You're not standing alone. That's great. I think that's a great place to stop. Well, thank you so much for your time. Thank you. you