 All right, man, we should probably jump into Rick and Morty at some point. Before we do that, how about you just like give your background up until Rick and Morty? So I didn't really know what I was doing with my life. I was a terrible student. I just I didn't do anything. I didn't like I didn't. It was before the era of even making any kind of videos or so. You know, I didn't really know how to channel my creativity I mean I would make like camcorder videos when I was a younger kid and then in high school I was just getting high and skipping school and you know goofing off with my friends and I didn't really know I wanted to get into comedy I thought I wanted to maybe because I was drawing get into cartoons or comic books or something like that and then I just didn't have the discipline for that. And so it was after high school, I was barely graduated, barely gotten to community college, which turned out to serve me well for being a writer on community. So, but I was like, I don't know what I'm doing. And then I somehow had an epiphany, which I'm going to reveal some biographical information, and you go, that's not really an epiphany. I decided to do stand-up. Now, my dad owned a stand-up comedy club. So I was going to stand-up comedy clubs my whole life, and he was a huge, it's a huge comedy club. It's considered one of the premier clubs in the country. And so growing up, I got to see, you know, Gary Sh and so growing up i got to see you know gary shanling and drew carey ellen degeneres jim carey i saw my 16th birthday uh with all my friends and that was that was still one of the most mind-blowing experiences because it was pre ace ventura post in living color wow so he was big but he wasn't you know as big as he would be coming in the next 10 years after that. And so, and he was so quick. And so I remember we were all there and I had one friend. We were like 16. So, of course, you've got friends of different ages. I had a 14-year-old friend who's very small. And it's an adult club, but I'm the owner's kid. So he gets up and he walks stops to go, Hey, Mr. That fake mustache won't fool me. And it was just like the middle of his bit. He just like saw that kid and just like me. And then we all like, my dad brought us back to the green room, shuffled us back there and, you know, opened the door and he was just like, just like sitting there, like just emanating energy. And he's like, Hey, so it's your birthday. I'm like, yeah's like cool you want to come back to my hotel room and watch some porno i was like uh it was what you'd want from a meeting jim carrey so anyway so then i yeah i was like i want to i want to i want to get involved in comedy but this is pre any kind of internet video youtube or anything and even like i didn't know all i knew how to do is edit camcorder to vcr oh like dual vcr thing yeah so i wasn't really doing this i'm like well stand up is something where you can write comedy and then you can perform it and you get an immediate reaction so i started doing that and doing the open mics and then eventually i i was like okay detroit is not for me the place i want to find my comedy voice so I moved to Chicago which is a great transition city and immediately I was watching these people on stage in Chicago and just everyone was blowing my mind just comedically and so got involved in that scene and I met a lot of people there like I always I probably should stop name dropping but my my comedy class at that time was like kumail nanjiani and tj miller pete holmes uh kyle canane matt bronger these are all guys who i did open mics with they started you know so we all kind of became friends and that was really my college because i didn't go to college really i went to community college for two years and i transferred to michigan state where all I did is watch TV constantly and say, I just want to write a TV show. Uh, and specifically I wanted to write an animated sci-fi comedy show. Okay. And this is before Futurama. Dude. So there's really nothing that existed in any, yeah, in any way. As far as like something you like aspired to. Yeah. I mean, I mean, you know, you're watching, I watched Conan and I watched old sitcoms at Seinfeld. I'm like, I like this stuff, but I knew that I wanted something that was sci-fi because I like sci-fi or genre, fantasy, something. But also comedy. It was like, I had no clue I'd ever be involved in a show like that. Like Rick and Morty is literally the exact show that I was fantasizing about at 20 years old. And on top of it, to be able to do it with friends, as opposed to, let's say I got hired on Futurama, I'd be like, I'm getting hired on a Fox show because I, you know, who knows? Either they loved my script and they hired me or I worked my way up from my writer's assistant but but Rick and Morty is like it's sci-fi fantasy comedy and it's dark as dark as my sensibility is which feature on my never really was as dark as I think ultimately I like to write and then just doing it with your friends yeah which you have a rapport you have an understanding it's like being in a band I hate using that metaphor That's just I actually like using that metaphor But I feel like I need to say I hate it cuz it's like it might be perceived as pretentious but it is because you have a rapport with people as opposed to being hired and thrown into a staff where it's like Hey, I die where I assume we're all funny professionally funny enough to be on the show, but I don't know what your sensibility is. So anyway, I think it's a long way of getting to how I got to Rick and Morty, which was, uh, Oh, well you got to, you got to talk. Yeah. So I, I, yeah. Skipped how you actually got. So, so then, uh, I was doing standup in Chicago for, for four years. And towards the end of it, I was like, I want to make videos. And I remember, and I'm so, Guterman and I, I referenced him now twice, Dan Guterman, a writer, producer on Rick and Morty, and one of the biggest ingredients of making that show great in the last two seasons. We were talking about how we're both driven by proving to the world that we know what we're doing, but also being terrified of being exposed as frauds at the same time. And so we're angry. We're like, people are going to respect us and validate that we know what we're doing. We're funny. And so, yeah. So I saw this guy make a comedy video on the stand-up scene, like a video video, which was relatively infrequent back then. And I watched it. I was just so angry i was like i'm gonna make a video 10 times better than that guy and so i met uh i was waiting tables with a guy named danny jelinek who's now a big comedy director he directed like children's hospital and i mean he directs on uh last uh last week tonight is that what john oliver show is called that sounds right okay yeah so he just directs tons of comedy. By the time we were waiting tables together and we just hit it off, just joking around and riffing, like waiting tables together. And so I found out he's in film school. And like I said, up until that point, I'd only done VCR editing. So when he showed me how to edit on a computer, when he showed me how to edit on a computer, my mind was blown. I was like, well, you can just drag a song underneath this. And then we don't, I don't have to record a song in the background in a boom box. And so we made a couple of comedy videos together with a lot of these standups. I, I gave Kumail Nanjiani his first role. In fact, I've, I confirmed that I hung out with him a couple of weeks ago and I was like, was five this video danny and i made was that your first acting role is it yeah wow so uh you can look that up anyway uh we we started making videos together and then i found out about channel 101 which is this uh should i explain what that is for your audience yeah people won't know what that is okay so it's still going after 15 years so channel 101 was uh started by dan harman and Rob Schraub. Dan's a creator of Community and Rick and Morty and Rob is a director who's directed a lot of stuff also on TV, comedy stuff, and Sarah Silverman's show, co-creator. At the time, they were writing partners and they were really feeling the futility of selling stuff. They'd made a show called Heat Vision Jack, pilot with jack black that ben solar directed but fox didn't pick it up and i think it was crushing and they were selling crushingly disappointing they were selling all these shows and movies but they weren't getting made and they're like what are we doing we're just writing and nothing is being seen by anybody so they started channel 101 just to make stuff videos and in 2003 with their friends and the framing device essentially is a film festival, but they would, it was set up like it was a competitive TV network. So they would, you'd make stuff, you'd submit it to the primetime panel. The primetime panel was the creators of shows that were currently in the screening. So that gave them the credibility to be judging over, but it's purely democratic. So what would happen is the creator, the five returning shows would be put up against five pilots and the audience would vote for their top five favorite shows among those 10. So you could get canceled and you could be off the primetime panel and then a new person could get on. So it always was, you know, people would say, oh, it's a conspiracy that they're going to put in shitty shows so that they don't have any competition. But no, because anyone with a pure heart and soul, which Dan and Rob do have creatively, and most of us who became their peers that sort of came to Channel 101 have this too. You want the show to be good. You want, you, you want to, you actually want to put stuff in there that's going to make you work harder. That's what made me better. When I moved to Chicago, I worked, you know, the people in Detroit were comedy people in Detroit who were, you know, if you're really serious, you move to Chicago, L.A. or New York. So once I moved to Chicago, I was around people who were that much more serious. They pushed me harder. L.A., you know, same thing. And then you're in Channel 101 and you're like, you're watching, you know, Justin Roiland's early stuff. You know, a guy named JD Risnar did Yacht Rock. These people, they were, everyone was getting better and they're making you have to get better. And Dan and Justin at the time and Rob, and at the time, the Lonely Island guys had a show in there who now Sarah Chalk was in their early stuff. And I was like the girl from scrubs. And now she's the voice of Beth, which is weird. So, um, okay. I got to turn this off. This is Rob Schraub texting me. Oh, whoa. So I moved out there because a friend of mine said, hey, you know, you like that Heat Vision Jack pilot. These guys, they created the Tinkle Channel 101. And so I moved to L.A. specifically just to get on their radar and make stuff for that thing because I watched the videos. I was like, this is exactly my kind of comedy and so the first video i made i submitted it and was rejected and it was the most heartbreaking experience and then i submitted another one and it got in but it didn't get voted back okay and so that's what happens it just made you work harder you go i gotta make something even better now and you have to just it forces you to just keep working harder until you make something that that the audience can't deny you know and then when you do that your peers will go oh hey man at the screening you know hey nice video it's pretty funny and then eventually you're getting so good they're like you want to hang out and then eventually you're getting so good they're like hey we just got a tv show you want to work on it and that's basically how it all so that's how you're employed and you have friends basically congrats it all and you know listen it's a curse and a blessing to have your employers also be your friends yeah no i know the feeling um so i think that like you've done a bunch of interviews on rick and morty and like dan and justin have also done a bunch of interviews on rick and morty i think what people listening to this will probably be most interested in is like just the sci-fi elements the random tech elements of it all um i was wondering if you could just like explain where you get your ideas for stuff or like is it coming from like you know sci-fi like fiction of the past are you just making making stuff up? Where does it come from? Definitely a big helping of fiction from the past. We, you know, are all well-versed in every iconic sci-fi genre movie and television show of the past 50 years. Okay, fine. Maybe not 50 years. I've never seen a Lost in Space episode. 25. Yeah. And on top of that, one of our writers, Mike okay fine maybe not 50 years let's not I've never seen a Lost in Space episode but 25 yeah and on top of that one of our writers Mike McMahon seems to read every sci-fi book and a graphic novel and I mean you know I watch a lot of TV and movies and I read occasional sci-fi books but I just he's like an encyclopedia that stuff so we'll be talking about all these ideas like oh what if it's something like this what if it's like something like this plot from this book combined with this episode of you know i always give the example of the total recall episode from season two where the parasites are in the house with them i think i think mcmahon pitched that as oh and buffy the vampire slayer season, they introduce this character Dawn as her sister. And everyone's pretending – I mean they're not pretending. They're treating her like she's always been there. And you know that as a viewer that she hasn't had a sister for the first four seasons. And so you find out the supernatural explanation for why that is. So I think that's where it started. And then we built on top of that a thing element like, oh, they're all trapped in the house and they're all suspicious. And then it was like, oh, what if we do the – I think Gooderman pitched the idea of, well, what if this is a way to do a clip show? So you're actually throwing the clips, but the clips themselves are not memories in the sense of like a traditional clip show. They're actually part of the sci-fi. And so it ends up being a patchwork of different references that are hopefully combined enough so we're not doing a spoof of any one thing. What I would never want to do, not that we haven't. I mean, Anatomy Park is considered maybe one of the weaker episodes, at least by us, because it's just a Jurassic Park spoof meets a Fantastic Voyage trope spoof that's been done a thousand times. We try to do a darker, weirder version of it but that's not the most ideal episode we want to like really make it feel that the references are if anything hidden but then okay so for like in the total recall episode right like they ended up getting spotted because it's something like they only have positive memories something like that was that something you guys made up or are you just like yeah that was you know that was one of those moments that you know when you're when you get to so far in a script and you're trying to figure out what that i can't remember if that was like the third act twist i i assume uh you're like okay what is going to solve this problem and then that's just when good old-fashioned writing ingenuity comes in you know and i i don't remember who pitched it but it it was, you know, yeah, the idea of, of, of you, you can identify the parasites because you've only have positive memories of them. Unlike your family, you've had all the complicated emotional experiences with that we all have. Um, but you know, that's, that's that example that that's the anatomy of that episode. But, you know, sometimes it's more like, like Morty night run, uh, was like, Oh, let's do like a midnight run kind of road adventure. And that's, we're not referencing midnight run. There's no, you know, like, Oh, that's clearly the Riafot Kodo character, but he's green wearing sunglasses with three eye lenses. Uh, but it's like, it's that the essence of that, you know? So, oh, well, yeah. Go on. I don't want to ramble on too much. I forget that. No, no, you're doing great. What's the title of the episode where it's like world within world within world within world? The title is called, God, we don't have any consistent naming formula. A lot of times it's puns with their names of famous movie titles and sometimes just completely oh i think it's the ricks must be crazy that sounds right yes yeah yeah the microverse and the mini verse yes where did that come from that justin had this idea of that rick uh had some machine that it would, he would liquefy an entire civilization because it was the only way to create this incredibly delicious dipping sauce. He loved the, Oh, the Mulan, not the Mulan sauce. This was, this was way before the Mulan sauce, but it was something similar. It was like, you know, which obviously the common theme is that Justin is obsessed with these kind of random things, and then we just want to capture that energy and put it in there. So it was just the idea of what could illustrate Rick's character better than he would sacrifice an entire civilization. One of the greatest inventions is creating life, complex life, just because once you liquefied it, it just happens to be the most delicious recipe. So I can't remember. It was always they go in and a character comes out. I think we actually, for the final version, the character never leaves, but there's a version where they sort of, the characters go in, whatever combination, in the earliest version, and then one of the people kind of comes out. So from the point of view of the character coming out, it's like this is where the world of the gods, you know? Yeah, I don't think they did. We didn't do that, yeah. But that was a big element. But at some point in early on in the writing of that, it felt a little too much like the episode of The Simpsons where Lisa's tooth becomes it's a treehouse of horror where her tooth I think Bart touches the touches some petri dish that her tooth is in and then the static electricity creates life and then it has a little civilization and it's a point where like they get to the future and now there's like nukes or spaceships flying around and attacking Bart and it felt like it was a little too much like that and so I think also we because we were doing the beats where Rick and Morty were traveling repeatedly throughout time period. So they'd get to the medieval period. And it just sort of felt a little too like, oh, I get it. This is like our medieval period, but it's aliens in a jar. And, you know, it's just it's trying to figure out how to get it. know it's just it's trying to figure out how to get it so we've just we're doing something that hasn't been done by either simpsons or south park or futurama which is not an easy uh uh cone uh path you know whatever those those highway cone paths when you're doing uh driver's training i mean we've through i've heard you guys mentioned that before but like do you have someone who has whether it's like encyclopedic knowledge or is there some like website where you're like plugging in the references you're using because it seems like impossible to avoid i think it is impossible to avoid and i we haven't done a good job all the time because i remember we were doing the the episode lawnmower dog which had the the inception thing and there's scary terry who's the freddy krueger character and we were way too far down the road and mike mcmahon said oh you know south park did you know, South Park did, you know, their Inception episode had Freddy Krueger. And we're like, uh, thanks. That would have been good to mention yesterday. Adam Sandler, everybody. Adam Sandler impression. Yeah, but it's like, great. Now we're too far down the line to change it. And, you know, then you just feel like a hack. And none of us had seen it. And the thing is, I love South Park, but I can't watch every episode of that show. Well, I mean, let alone remember everything. Yeah. I think it's just like oftentimes when I'm working on creative projects, I'm just like, is this new? Or I like faintly remember it. Like, is it an exposure to something? By the way, there's a feeling that I get that's a combination of self-loathing and self – what's the opposite of self-loathing? Confidence? Confidence. But I'm trying to still make it negative, like self-glorifying, where if I think I've come up with a really particularly brilliant idea, I immediately go, this had to have been done before. You know? particularly brilliant idea i immediately go this had to have been done before you know and so but there is you there are actual websites of tv tropes and movie tropes you can look up but but it's i think it's almost sometimes it's just too nuanced like how do you even describe this particular bit you know it's just so and you know the fact is it's like it's sort of like when those they do these videos every now and then of comedians getting busted like, did Amy Schumer steal Louis C.K.'s bit? I don't know because there's so much stand-up comedy being generated and there's only so many ideas in the world. I don't even mean there's only so many jokes. I mean like people are always kind of landing on the same human thoughts about life. I could say we have never consciously ripped anything off and and you know sometimes maybe it's to a fault where you're like you're trying so hard to stay away from something that you you're like you're not having any fun well i was wondering about that with like i mean maybe maybe not south park or simpsons or something but like you know an older uh you, piece of fiction where it's just like, let's do something almost identical to it, but like basically add the Rick and Morty spin on top of it. And like that opens it up in a new way. Like, I guess you've sort of done that with a bunch of episodes, like that are like throwbacks, but I wonder if it like goes more nuanced than that with like obscure stuff. Um, was it it was the one with the first introduced the council of ricks uh and it was called a rick for every season or something like that but that episode is i think that it's sort of it's one of the few episodes where, oh, you know, actually, ironically, people did say, did you guys rip off the Council of Reeds, which is a storyline from the Fantastic Four, which is a bunch of Reed Richards from different parallel realities in the Marvel Universe formed a Council of Reeds? No, we didn't know about that. But it's also an obvious place to go with rick and but more importantly the story itself around it just felt like it felt like a movie compressed in a 22 minute episode it was like more like a like not really a familiar story but like oh this would be this is like kind of a classic this is a mystery it was a mystery episode it was like who they were investigating you know rick was trying to clear his name so that that was a Rick and Morty take on a mystery, a, you know, trying to think of examples of movies, you know, there's, I mean, The Fugitive. You know what I mean? That's a movie or a show before that about a guy who's trying to hunt the real killer of his wife while he's being pursued by the authorities. So that was the Rick and Morty take on that trope but that's or genre or sub-genre and i think that's because i didn't even think of that as being a a fugitive spoof because it wasn't it's just it's like you said it's like the rick and morty take on a classic yeah i mean it's like how many movies are just like you know recomposed greek myths right and just like well it's sort of the same thing but not really at all yeah we do a episode in uh season three that's it's not um a spoof of any anything in particular but we started referencing very specific movies and we're like well this is okay and i'm gonna try to weave through this without spoiling anything it's like you know 127 hours is uh i think i might even talk about this comic-con so it's actually probably okay to talk about but there's an episode where rick turns himself into a pickle and it's the only other footage that's shown they showed it after the premiere of season of episode one is season three so that's not a spoiler okay rick turns himself into a pickle but what the episode's really about is he turns himself into a pickle. But what the episode's really about is he turns himself into a pickle and then he sort of gets trapped and he ends up involved in a situation one thing, one twist leads to another and he's totally screwed and he's doesn't have the same resources that he usually has access to. He's a pickle. He's not himself. He can't reach into his lab coat and pull out his portal gun or any of his other infinite inventions he has hidden in there. And yet he's in the most mundane of circumstances. He's just on earth. He's, he's, he's a few hundred feet from the house. He's not, but he's a pickle. He's not, but he's a pickle. So he has to figure out how to get himself out of that with really basic ingenuity. And so we kept talking about 127 Hours or Gravity, like these movies about characters that are just in these situations that they are alone and they have to figure out, you know, what do I do to get out of this? And so that was a great, once again, to do the Rick and Morty version of what that subgenre is. I don't even know what that subgenre is called. Survivalist? The survivalist subgenre? Room escape type deal. Yeah, yeah. Okay. And so then, so all the gadgets, you talked about the portal gun and stuff. Like, you know, the aliens have random gadgets. When they go to a different world, everyone's got different like weapons that they attack them with. Where does all that stuff come from? Well, that I know, I mean, you know, like the first example that pops in my head is I think that Justin wanted to base the Citadel of Ricks off of something from Halo. I'm not a huge video game person. He is. So there's some big spaceship Citadel thing in the game Halo. the game Halo. And so a lot of times the, the, the, uh, elements of the planets or the technology will be, you know, straight up visual references like, oh, this is, you know, this is like a gun from this movie. There's I'm, I'm, I'm not as, I'm not a big tech person. I never thought about this until just now, but I've never really cared that much about what the tech looks like. As long as it, you know, you want to make sure kind of everything feels and looks different and there's a flavor to it. But I like the, I'm pretty into the alien design. So I've gotten involved. I've gotten, I've, you know, talked to art directors and, you know, character designers and been like, all right, this alien has to look like this. If it looks like this, it looks like this it's not gonna work it's not gonna be as funny if it looks like this it's gotta look like you know it's gotta be like you gotta take it seriously or or or it it's from this kind of planet so it's gotta have these specific anatomical features um and it's true like you you i mean it's so funny though because there's been so many times when uh you know i don't the me seeks is a perfect example i feel like i've talked about this. I'm so sorry if anyone who's watching this is like, I have already heard this anecdote. Anyone who's heard this before is going to want more. Like they want it again. But the Meeseeks, I wrote that episode. And when I say I wrote, you know, it's such a collaborative effort. My name was on that script. But, you know, we all sort of So, and Dan does so much of the final dialogue passes and stuff. So the Meseeks started out as, you know, this voice, this concept that Justin pitched. And then I wrote the episode and I wrote the episode script and I still in my head picture them as tiny little, tiny little for you at home. Creatures like the size of Smurfs or something. Okay. you at home uh creatures like the size of smurfs or something okay and justin and it was i'm not kidding it was the blue dress gold dress of of of the writer's room because half the people reading the same script and crew imagine them life size and half imagine them as tiny little gremlin things or smaller than gremlins and and so and i don't i just i guess the script was written in a way we never really thought about their scale, you know? So there's a scene where Jerry and Beth are in the restaurant and they all bust in. And I remember thinking like, oh, that it'd be funny if they're like on the table, like, like, you know, three apples high, like in Jerry's face with a gun and everyone's like, no, no, no. It's like a life size, human size, with a gun i was like that's gonna be terrifying so anyway it's those conversations though that are important because you're like it's a very different concept if they were smurfs versus what they ended up being you know and then on top of that you have just what do they look like are they complex are they simple are they blue are they monochromatic how do you decide how do you decide for you know the six foot mesique versus the you know the little munchkin version lots of debate yeah lots of debate yeah you got to discuss it you know and and like i said it was so evenly divided that it wasn't like just me fighting for them being small it was like other people too and then you know eventually you you figure out what's the best way and like every other argument we've ever had eventually the episode gets finished and made and it comes out and then you just kind of forget about all the problems like that would have been better if they were two feet high but then you're like years go by you're like who cares no you know it's the thing that like someone watching it can't know i mean maybe now they can know but yeah um have you ever done like uh i don't know if it's like a director's cut animation where you're like, I kind of wanted him to look like this. So can you edit that in and then throw it in as an extra like a. Yeah, well, there's been lots of storyboarding that we've we've redone and and, you know, revised. And that's what that's it ends up getting us in trouble. We'll just we'll because it's animation, we'll be like, we're going to rewrite the script and you can redraw it. It's not a good thing to do because we're not a Fox show with unlimited, or at least near unlimited funds. So there's lots of stuff that we've had, this totally alternate versions of scenes. And the premiere of season two, which is a really just soul-crushing, heartbreaking episode to break that no one has ever been ultimately satisfied with its final result um that we kept revising changing and and we could never really land on what the logic of that episode was it was the one where the things keep splitting oh yeah yeah and so it's like a split screen episode and we just could never figure out what the logic was because at the end of the day admittedly unlike futurama none of us on the staff have we are barely educated we're not mathematicians we don't really know that much about science we're writing from the point of view of tropes and and genre stuff we want to tell good stories we're more scientists of story if you will as opposed to like we don't really know how any of this shit works we should get a science advisor so uh so that episode we we at one point it was so there's a whole running thing where morty had um gone and gotten some point short shorts and and no one calls attention to it because you know the world has been frozen between season one and season two. And so you find out that they've just been running around having fun looting department stores and Morty at some point grabbed short shorts and he's walking around. And at one point, Rick starts leaning into him, berating him and he points out the short shorts and starts roasting him about the short shorts. Like, what is this? The new look for season two? And and starts breaking the fourth wall yeah you're hoping that you get one of these limited edition alternative action figure with short shorts morty like it just starts which i love by the way i think that's one of the funniest parts of the show is that you can weave in and out of the fourth wall but still you're still invested in the story but anyway not that it ended up that scene ended up being in the air but it's on the dvd i think and yeah that and by the way even more of that in season three there's like we rewrote some episodes so much that there's animatics that are like so different than the final product yeah well that's what I was wondering I mean like season three isn't out yet but except for the first episode um I was wondering if you could jump into that like what can we expect like what kind of weird things are coming up without revealing everything what i like about the show and from a broad point of view personally is that people seem to be invested in the reality of the show in other words you know people are wondering about certain characters oh when is that person going to come back what's happening with that character and the fact that anybody cares about characters that were introduced once in season one and like intriguing ideas like the eyepatch Morty, who's the evil Morty, you know, it was that character didn't come back in season three. I think that we stay true to the idea of of those. The world is real. There are consequences at the same time. We're going to have lots of one off things, but there's consequences both. I mean, you know, you saw in the first episode that they, they, they get divorced. That that's, that has consequences that play out through the whole season, but there's also consequences that are outside of, you know, some of the stuff that you've seen already is going to play out more in season three. Okay. Yeah. So along those lines then of like random things that like maybe get addressed maybe don't get addressed uh i have a question uh from another yc person uh kat mignolet um her question is uh can you make roy the game can we make it will you make it will we the writers of an animated comedy show create a virtual reality simulation can we get funding for it i think is the question i don't know i mean maybe we can figure it out uh maybe we already have and that's what this is oh shit we're in roy uh-huh it was the second one well we're in ryan okay yeah uh yeah what was the second one called i think i might have pitched that joke the whatever the roy sequel i think it was dave or david or something like that yeah um so the answer is no because we're incapable of that but also maybe we already have yeah i think in the virtual reality uh in the virtual reality game virtual rickality i think it's called uh i think justin told me there's a scene there's an easter egg where you play a knockoff version of roy oh it sounded hilarious i played some of that game but i didn't get this far you find like a a bootleg roy and then you so you're playing a virtual reality game within a virtual reality game because it's the virtual virtual rick and morty well so yeah i get just like we should step back and explain what the actual Rick and Morty virtual reality game is because it just came out, right? Yeah, yesterday. Yeah. That's a game where you're, it's a virtual reality game where you're a clone of Morty. So when you appear in the game, you're in the garage and Rick and Morty are standing there and yelling at you. at you and then you do different things and you you know obviously it's somewhat limited in where you can go it's virtual reality and you can't just run around but you go to like different worlds i think you can teleport to three or four different worlds you can go in the house which is pretty mind-blowing because i it's weird i remember i played the level or i was just justin put me into the the scene in the house and i'm like this is the house like this is the living room this feels so weird like i'm not used to experiencing it from that perspective that's so funny was there like any like disconnect between like the house you imagined writing and the virtual reality house that's been created well the disconnect is pretty great because i you know justin pointed out something because you're standing in front of the TV. And so the couch is behind you. And then to your, let's say the TV is this way to my left was the sliding glass door, which I know we've used a lot. You know, the party episode takes place in the house, but never really thought about it. And Justin says, that's Mike Chilean's. This is Mike Chilean's parents' house sliding glass door and the way it looks outdoors i never would have thought that's a friend of ours he also happened to be the character designer the pilots we actually designed a lot of the original characters but uh i i never would have thought that until i was physically in the space and i looked over i'm like oh my god that is mike chillian's parents house like this is that's i totally see it now but i never would have thought of that watching it i mean i forget that i forget what color hair beth has like in my mind for some reason she's a brunette and i always forget that she's a blonde because most of my experience of the show is in my head i don't consume it as much as as as some people do because i don't sometimes i don't even watch the final episodes you know yeah i believe i'm like you know and and if anything i'm watching most of them when they're in the animatic stage, when they're all black and white. So sometimes I actually forget what the characters look like, like what their outfit, you know, Rick's color palette. Like there's a joke in the first episode where he says, I used to wear blue pants. And then to write that joke, which McMahon did, like, I think we had to look at Rick and Morty on a sheet of paper and be like, oh, okay. So he has brown pants, I think, a blue shirt, a white lab coat. And then even like when Rick takes his shirt off, like what he looks like underneath blew my mind once. I was like, oh God, what is he? Oh yeah. I hadn't thought about that. That's a good point. So, okay. So, so the Roy thing is an Easter egg in virtual reality. So virtual Rickality. I think that's what it's called. Okay. If I know how we name our property, our titles. Yeah. I think so. Cause then there's like the Instagram thing that it Rick's diverse. What about the other game? Like I played some of the other ones, the other games, like what is this like caused you guys to like jump into all these random digital property things? Well, that caused you guys to like jump into all these random digital property things well that's not us is this adult swim yeah i think they're driving it i mean i i certainly you know i don't um i was sort of involved i consulted a little bit on the some of the web content that bridged season two and season three which is out i mean you know the thing where um it's like a website that's in theory, you're kind of, it's the Galactic Federation's website. Okay. These guys, Carrot, I think the company's called, they did a bunch of content for that. I think they also designed the Rick's Diverse, but that's like driven by Adult Swim and whoever they subcontract. Yeah. We've had more direct say on the DVD special features and, um, so a little bit, Justin oversees some of the merchandise, you know, like what the figures are going to be or look like at the toys or pitches for ideas for what they could do, you know, for different kinds of stuff that I may or may not be able to talk about. But, but I, I had a lot to say personally on the, on like the, some of the DVD stuff like I remember for the season two there's a lot of debate about what the little thing that we're going to have in the season one it was the Jack Chick track which is from the Council of Ricks episode or there's a the good Morty Jack Chick track so we just printed up real ones and put it in and then for the second one we really had a long conversation about what should it be and we finally landed well it should be a plumbus instruction manual and then we should we should do the joke should be in some alien language first and then this then we're usually spanish or french would be is the english translation so uh yeah but nothing i haven't had a lot to say about other stuff or certainly i can't speak for what justin danivet's saying and that's true for the vr game too because i figured like you just have this room of nerds and they're like oh we should make a vr get like the accounting game too that was like alchemy yeah yeah oh no no wait that was justin's accounting yeah yeah yeah um i was getting confused because the guys who created the rick and morty vr game did a job simulator so i was good but but accounting was justin's project with the guy who said the stanley parable okay yeah i think they did that in like a week the initial build of that but um anyway i wish i was more involved in the rick and morty virtual reality because i do have one uh nit to pick with it and and i think i i i maybe i'm being a dick but uh because because the guys did a great job the alchemy guys um and i think they kind of just created that from scratch. Like, you know, Justin, I'm sure, riffed a lot of the dialogue because that's what he does and he's great at it. But I think they conceived the whole game and they did such a great job. But maybe I shouldn't even say this. But my one beef with it was like, because you're a clone Morty that keeps dying and then you go to a limbo and then you can push a button and get respawned. I was like, dude, why wasn't it a Meseeks? Because then he could be destroyed or whatever fulfills purpose and therefore die. And then instead of limbo or hell or whatever, you're in the Meseeks box. And we could actually depict what that would look like, which could be – I would have loved to have pitched that because because that could have been so cool it could have been like a doctor who thing or like a hellraiser like you know just bizarre imagery of what a me seeks box looks like you know um but that's just me as a writer you know i don't know yeah i don't know i don't know like what know, what makes the most sense from a video game point of view? You know? I mean, I imagine people want to be Morty, right? Like when they're playing a game. Well, but you're not, you know, you're still interacting with Rick and Morty. That's true. You're a clone Morty. So you don't actually writer hat on you know and i i don't want to tell anyone how to do their job certainly and i i think those guys did a great job but that's my one thing i'm like that would have been so cool because i think that what's fun about anytime you do content like a video game is being able to actually show other aspects that the show might not show. You know, the show is more, we've talked about how we bring back Meeseeks. And if we were, we do probably want to really, if we're going to bother you, we want to really explore a different aspect of it. But that's one way to do it right there is show what the inside of the Meeseeks box looks like. That would have been really cool. Fair enough. So what else are you working on now that like rick and morty season three is all all written squared away um what's coming up for you just developing some stuff trying to get out get my own show you know that expression it's better to reign in hell than serve in heaven nope oh that's one of my favorite expressions it means that would you rather be a servant in one of the best shows on tv or would you rather be the charge of a show that nobody cared about oh so what show that nobody cares about are you working you know i've got a few different ideas you know i'm trying to trying to crack writing is hard, man. It's, it's, you know, it's writing a pilot is, it's hard because it's just nothing. And then you have to figure out how to make it something, you know, coming aboard any TV show. I came aboard Rick and Morty after the pilot. So at least I sort of understood. We're still figuring out those characters, by the way, even to the, to the three season three, but there's something that you can start playing with, which means, oh, you know, like I, I love writing Morty when he's angry because it's just so funny to write him like really angry and pissed off at Rick. Uh, and you know, that's because a lot of times he's not, he's early on, he was like, Whoa, Whoa, Whoa, you know, sort of low status, you know, and now to actually put him in a high status position where he's like, give it reading Rick, the riot act is fun, but you only, that's only fun because you're twisting the convention around when you're trying to come up with something from scratch. It's like, what's the convention let alone, how do you twist it? So, yeah, so that's a long way of saying that I'm just, you know, I'm developing a few different shows and seeing what sticks. Wow. That's a metaphor I have heard before. What's that? Yeah. That's a metaphor I have heard. Throwing a lot at the wall and seeing what sticks. That's based on spaghetti. Oh, thanks, man. That's what sticks. If I learned one thing today. Yeah. What about all your youtube ideas oh boy okay so so i want to start a youtube channel uh well honestly okay here's the sincere answer because i don't i don't have any ambitions to make a career out of youtube but what would be nice is that you know i'm starting to get those email requests about hey i'm a writer what can i do i'm like i i don't i can't really give any advice because what as I already laid out it's so hyper specific and right place right time and it is for everybody but you know I don't know I was thinking about maybe making videos just sort of talking about different things I like to I like to live stream and so just sort of just kind of having fun just and not worrying about something being good enough to make money off of, which is that's what happens when you're developing a TV show. From my perspective is like, is this going to sell? Is this going to make money? It's like, what if you just were creative and didn't have to worry about that? So but the other thing I want to make videos is about climate change because I want to really figure out how I can like. Like a serious. Well, maybe maybe comedy but like with a real purpose is that what you're saying to finally expose the myth that is climate change that it's a hoax and that the government is just trying to tax us all until oh sorry i'm a climate change denier no that's good i'm a flat earth guy so uh go for it yeah here's your pedestal well you know i so i'm i'm totally uh that's my big issue i'm obsessed with it and and to be clear i was joking i'm i'm i'm obsessed with finding a solution to climate change which starts with acknowledging that it's real and so but i'm like i'll join these organizations and i'll i'll go and i'll be like you know this is great and i love to you know i'd love to table and volunteer and march but like is that really the most impactful use of my skill set? So I'll like watch some videos online that are anti-climate change. And I'm like, the ones that are pro-climate change are usually pretty dry. And I'm like, maybe I can make something somewhat entertaining. I don't know. You know, that's my little dream I have. Using my communication skills and comedic abilities to do my little part to save this little blue dot well um this has been awesome it was really great you got everything you needed uh i think so i mean is there like are there any words of wisdom you want to share for people who aspire to be rick and morty type writers uh but like if or do you just not reply to those emails or you know i i'm not great at it uh but i have said i have replied to him a couple of times and said, because the problem is that, you know, like I'll get a Facebook message or an Instagram message or a Twitter DM. And I'm like, I just forget and lose track of everything. But, you know, it's funny because I will say that I think now is such a weird time because Dan and Justin and I are all within the same sort of age range. And, man, we grew up in a world where, you know, all we wanted was superhero movies and sci-fi shows. And they were so few and far between when we were teenagers. And so now we're living in a world where, like, that's everything. teenagers and so now we're living in a world where like that's everything and and we're able to do a show where it's we can take all of that and just like run it through a filter and put it on tv so if you're a genre fan i can't tell if this is like the best time to be a genre writer creator uh aspiring or the worst time because it's like you could say it's the best time because people are more open to that now but it almost might be the worst time because it's so saturated. Well, I think the core idea is actually really interesting, which is like make the stuff that you really want. Because like, I mean, it's like basically your generation that's allowed that to happen, right? Thank you. We are pioneers. You're amazing, man. But you know what I mean, right? We are pioneers. Yeah. Amazing men. But you know what I mean, right? So it's like if you're 15 now, like you just make the stuff that like you really want to make and like hopefully eventually people are into it. Yeah. And that's that really is that that's the number one advice is just make the stuff that you want to watch. And you really you have to just make it for an audience of one. You really, you have to just make it for an audience of one and of course hope that that ends up resonating with an audience of millions because that's how you make money. But, you know, like, you know, and it's hard because it's like I, there's ideas I have for shows. I'm like, this is the kind of show that I've never seen before, which is, means it's terrifying because you're like, how i explain this to somebody but if i can execute it properly then it's a show that's never been seen before and that's that could be great it could also be a total failure but it could be great at least it's a risk that could pay off um so yeah i think that that's that's that's the important thing is is just making stuff just for yourself and when we when we made season one of rick and Morty no one knew what the show was or cared what the show was so we're just like making ourselves laugh you know and then we had no clue it was going to be we're like well it's an adult swim show so like it'll be as popular as an adult swim show it's going to be you know and somehow it's really struck a chord that I've I'm just shocked by because you know the fact that the McNugget sauce became a thing that was like the fact that, you know, I see, you know, like celebrities wearing Rick and Morty t-shirts. I'm just like, what is going on? This is, it still feels like just, you know, a group of friends who've been doing this stuff. Like I said, we've made stuff for, for just for free for ourselves. We made a podcast, made a web series that nobody paid for that we're just like whatever and and you know and to actually make something that people see and you know is is we're making a living off of is pretty crazy have you been able to like discern why it has such an outsized impact for like just this random show yeah i i well no i've really tried to figure it out because i i thought well i mean i think dan's visionary brilliant creator and writer and so i think there's it's no surprise that anything he writes is going to resonate at the same time i thought well but clearly it's a combination of that and justin's voice which i've i remember from the second i saw justin on on camera, which was live action, not even animation back in 2004 at channel one-on-one. I was like, that guy's hilarious. His voice is hilarious. I want to work with that guy. And, uh, so I thought, well, it's that combination of that Jeanne Seycloff, his voice, if I may, uh, with Dan's writing, but then again,'s popular internationally in russia and all these other countries where it's just dubbed over with not just the voice so so you know it's like is that it's it's it's the rick character is just one of those characters like i don't know like a cartman or a can't think of other examples where you're just like that guy just that guy fucking says the shit i want to yeah i want to say but i'm not smart enough or ballsy enough to say it so it's really just a cathartic kind of character and then it's a family show so that appeals to people because i think it feels somewhat like a real family as opposed to maybe a family guy which you're like i don't know they're just characters bouncing off each other uh this actually plays in real family dynamics and then it's just also pretty to look at because the animators and the artists and the crew, finally, I'm, I'm stopping focusing on what the writers do. Uh, they do such a good job, the directors and everybody. It just, so I watched the first episode of season three, like so many times, not because I was so in love with the writing or the, uh, jokes, but I was like, man, this is just so visually beautiful. jokes but i was like man this is just so visually beautiful so it's just it's it kind of covers a lot of demographic voting blocks if you will it was it was a candidate it would yeah do really well in the polls i guess the last question that i have about that is um what's the deal with the pupils like the hand-drawn not circular that's that's absolutely justin's signature aesthetic That's absolutely Justin's signature aesthetic because I think from the early days of his cartoons he did that. Oh, I haven't seen those. You've never seen House of Cosbys? No. Oh, my God. Sorry. House of Cosbys was what put Justin Roiland on the map. I'll never forget. It was January 2005, Channel 101. 2005 channel 101 when that thing debuted uh it blew the roof off the place which is the opposite reaction of my show jack everlasting which kept the roof firmly on uh in fact it you might even say it sucked the air out of the room um but but yeah it's a it's a show where a guy clones bill cosby and it's hilarious. All right, so if people want to pay attention to what you're up to, how can they follow you on the internet? Hit up at Ryan Ridley at Twitter, Ryan Ridley at Instagram. I do do live streams pretty regularly. Oh, yeah, what is the comparison? I call myself Chuck Lorre of live streaming because I have about 10 to 15 live streaming shows I do. I do a show called I Don't Feel Like Writing Today, which is a show that I do whenever I don't feel like writing. I do a show called Law and Abed, where my friend Abed Gaith, who is the basis of the Abed Nader character and community, talks to me about some of his legal situations. And I learned about the law that way uh i do a show called late night with ryan ridley which when i just can't sleep i just start you know live streaming uh so anyway that's a real fun time and also i'll answer questions about rick and morty or writing or whatever um i don't know yeah that's perfect we shouldn't have even done this podcast i should have just gotten you on live stream all right man, man. Cool. Thanks. Thanks for having me. Done. All right.