 Ryan Peterson, thanks for coming in for the podcast. Let's start with a brief explanation of what Flexport is, because many people might not know what a freight forwarder is. Yeah, so well, Flexport is a freight forwarder, first and foremost, and that means we help businesses ship cargo around the world. We're also a technology company, so we use technology to give companies more visibility and control over their freight and at a lower price. We use technology to automate a lot of the labor. Freight forwarding is really interesting. We're all used to, the analogy that people want to go towards is like a FedEx or a UPS, which are parcel shippers. And the difference between parcel and freight is actually a very simple one. It's like, is the product too heavy for the driver to lift up and put in the truck? And the moment it is, now it's freight. truck and the moment it is now it's freight yeah and it needs a whole different network to move it it can't go through those same trucks the conveyor belts are too narrow for freight for pallets and and the what fundamentally happens that's different is in the parcel business it's from end to end one company and therefore they can have like scanners at each mode they can at each node in the network they can give you that nice user experience with the milestones telling you where your stuff is. In the freight world, because of the size, there's no company big enough to keep it in their own network from door to door. You would actually have to be the biggest company in the world by far. You'd have to have a port leaving every port going to every other port every day. You'd have to have a ship, rather, leaving every port, going to every other port. You would need the same for airplanes. And then when that ship arrives, remember that these big container ships now, you need 10,000 trucks to meet the ship. So you would need 10,000 trucks in every port every day. You just couldn't do it. It would be too big. So what a freight forwarder does in the freight network is you're moving this freight as a relay race, being handed off from a trucking company in China to the warehouse, to another trucking company, to a port, to an ocean carrier, right door, and then the mirror image on the other side, door to door. That process looks like a bunch of unstructured data being handed off in a relay race. And so what's different about Flexport is we're taking all that data, structuring it, creating a platform so that each of those parties can get what they need to do their job or give us what we need to pass to the next party in the chain. What's an example customer? So to kind of contextualize this for someone. One of our bigger customers is Georgia Pacific. We also have Sonos as a customer. So we ship all the speakers. Georgia Pacific is the biggest paper company in the world. But we also, I think, are the best way to ship stuff to Amazon. So we have about 2,000 merchants that sell on Amazon that use us. And they're going directly to Amazon warehouses? Or what are they doing? Okay. Yeah. So probably about 10% of Flexport shipments get delivered to an Amazon warehouse. Yep. And we have small companies doing that as well as big companies that sell through Amazon. And you were selling through amazon 10 years ago 15 years ago yeah 10 15 years ago um actually back in my day ebay was a bigger platform than amazon amazon introduced the third party seller i remember i was one of the first people to sign up for it and i thought it was amazing that for 40 bucks a month i could become an amazon merchant and add products to their catalog just full on you could just add with the photos everything i don't know if you can still do that but i could just yeah i could make up i'm sure you can still do that i mean that's how we sell the book yeah but i would just make up my own brand name and create it i thought it was amazing like oh wow i'm on amazon this is live this is legit that's so were the margins the same back then i think they were higher you used to do capitalism works and sort of people see someone making profit where they shouldn't. And then other people pile in until the profits are gone. And that was probably that was the problem. So our business was importing motorbikes from China as well as electric scooters. We the scooter mania that's happening now is so fascinating for me because 15 years ago, my brother and I and our other business partner, Michael Kanko, we were importing electric scooters. Almost the same form factor, similar price point. And in fact, I saw one for sale on eBay, Mexico, like a month ago, just checking out to see what happened to our old brand that we invented. Yeah. And there's a one for sale for 125 bucks on eBay in Mexico, which maybe these things hold value better than we thought they would. I mean, this is like a classic Silicon valley story right where like people find something that's good but not until the market is ready for it will it really take off like it also obviously required a smartphone i think you needed the smartphone and so you know i i even tweeted about this i'm like if only i would have invented the iphone i could be rich with the scooter business I had. And so, so obviously the scooter thing didn't work out or just kind of was fading. You decided to do something else, right? It was a tough business. So I lived in China for a couple of years. Actually, it was a good business. It went along for a while. We never considered it a startup. We were never trying to like change the world. It was like a couple of guys trying to earn a living. We, I moved to China. I lived there for two years running supply chain for that business. And then kind of use my story as an entrepreneur with international experience. I speak five languages and told that story to get into business school. I wasn't making a lot of money. In fact, the year before business school, I only made $17,000, which I'm almost certain was the lowest of anyone who was trying to make money that year. I'm sure that some business school students weren't trying, but I was trying hard and not succeeding. And I thought business school would be a path for me to at least have some sort of backup plan in life and I could get a job. Yeah. I never really had a job in my whole life. I've worked for Domino's Pizza making pizza when I was 15 and that's more or less it really did you graduate with that I did yeah yeah did do you feel that that affected your decisions I mean obviously you're working for yourself now but um it I didn't let it I it did affect my decisions but I I was determined so I went to business school I graduated about 140,000 in debt I was pretty determined I knew that like I looked at my classmates and I could tell that I was a little bit different than them. Like, I've never had a job. I'm an entrepreneur. And I looked at the recruiting cycles and processes and the types of jobs that were available to MBAs and I just knew I'd be bad at them. It wasn't that I was too good for them. It was like, I'm not good enough. It wasn't that I was too good for them. It was like, I'm not good enough. You would fire me if you hired me to do this management job. I'm not cut out for it. Yep. And so what I did to manage the debt was actually I got a bunch of part-time jobs. So one of them was writing case studies for- For Columbia? Yeah. So I wrote the first published business school case study about an African company. Uh, so I went to Nigeria and wrote a case study about a tech company in Africa and that was paying me like 40 bucks an hour and it was quite flexible. So I could like work a few hours a day on that. Um, I also had a job teaching the GMAT, uh, which pays a hundred bucks an hour. And then I had a job, like I started a little SEO consulting firm to help businesses with their search engine presence. So I had three totally flexible on my schedule jobs. So, okay. So I've been in experiences like this before. How do you manage your time such that you give your best energy to your business that you want to start rather than like letting all these other projects consume all of your time and energy well so i didn't know what business exactly i was going to do and so i just needed to make sure i had some money and and then free up make sure i had i'm kind of obsessive so i'll have i'll make time for for hacking on things and creating things. But I would, I had three or four different businesses going at the same time. Ideas plus my, uh, and there, what's a business. It was just a website and I'm trying to drive traffic and see if anyone signs up. Okay. Um, so that, Oh, so it was mostly just like landing pages for ideas. Yeah. That's what I would do is create landing pages and then see if anybody buys. anybody buys what were the ideas um well a couple of them have merged so one of them was an erp for importers that would manage your inventory and then we'd sell you freight which is actually kind of what flexport's becoming and one of them was an online customs brokerage and freight forwarder that became flexport um we've had so many dumb ideas they're not really worth talking about i not because i'm embarrassed but i don't even remember that any important ones but i had a few uh and you know and flex for what became flex for and actually by the way this is your years and years i'm always doing this i i still have some random projects like uh sock bankruptcy.com so if you run out of socks you just declare sock bankruptcy and we'll send you 50 packs of socks that's great that's so good i i mean i i i that's my form of entertainment is like uh create a little landing page and see if anyone comes and buys i'm good i think i'm gonna do the same thing i um so all the t-shirts i wear i had custom made okay but there's like uh i basically tricked the company that made them the first time into ordering me like a test run and i only ordered like 10 or 20 and i'm gonna eventually wear all of them out so i think i'm just gonna do a bulk order and have like medium gray t-shirt.com or something just like sell them all um yeah so i you know i i think there's a misconception that entrepreneurs are just like huge risk takers but i see myself quite the opposite it's like i wanted to see that there's real traction. People want the thing that I'm going to do. And in fact, that was many years later, my first business out of after business school is called importgenius.com. And it's a search engine for shipping manifests, um, helping anytime you import something, the shipping manifests as a public record. It tells you who imported the product, who sold it. So you can look up any company and see all their factories you can look up any factory see all their customers um used by hedge funds but it's really used by uh importers amazon merchants who are trying to research factories overseas well isn't that the concern if amazon starts paying attention to where people are making stuff and they just make their own uh amazon's doing that relentlessly right yeah they've as they get into shipping right well yeah they already just do it that's how they they look at their sales data and then be like, which, which product should we clone and go make an Amazon basics version of that product. They have like 400 different brands now that you don't even realize are Amazon. Yeah. Competing with your platform. I think platforms should be neutral. And so the idea that you compete with your vendors, to me, you've got to, a business needs to keep all of its major stakeholders happy. Yeah. And your vendors are one of your key stakeholders. If you don't treat them, like you have to be the counterparty of choice for your vendors. And Amazon doesn't, that's the one mistake I would say that they make. Like it's the company I respect the most in the world, but they don't seem to respect their vendors. And that to me, it's not sustainable unless you keep your six stakeholders as a business or your customers who you pay you money, your vendors, your employees, your investors, your regulators, and then the communities where you operate. And you have, so you have six stakeholders. And if you can keep all six of those, you've got to be the counterparty of choice for all six. You got to get yourself in their head and be like, what do those companies, those partners want? You keep all six happy. That's the definition of winning. Nobody loses. It's like, and it's like you're playing poker. You've got, and you know, everybody's hand is you can see through their eyes. You won't lose. Um, and, and so when you see a business that's like failing on one of those, whether often it's the regulator the community or the employees etc but can't your vendors are too important to alienate them it's an interesting point so would you would you bet against amazon at this point no and i so what do you think happens well i think that they can be they're already enormously successful now as for like their stock whether it's overvalued or not i don't have an opinion i i um i sold my amazon stock two years ago when I bought a house. And I literally, I was crying. Maybe not literally, but I was like, this is the dumbest thing I've ever done. Why am I selling this stock? My house is up 10% and my Amazon's up like 4x. So obviously I was right. I wouldn't bet against the company. I do think, however, if Amazon wins and they seem to be winning, then there's only one global mega corp that makes everything. And like, we all have two choices. You want the black version or the white version of, of your product. Yep. And that is exactly what a philosopher in Germany in the 1860s predicted would come to be is that there's one global mega corp and the proletarian must overthrow it and take it back. And I don't want to live in that world, you know so i think there's a i i see a big part of flexports role is enabling empowering all the other brands in the world all the other great makers and creators to make products and and have the infrastructure to compete and thrive in the amazon world yeah i have been seeing a lot of friends start these i mean they're not necessarily small companies, but they're all kind of going for that premium angle. Right. So they're like not selling on Amazon. They're selling through their own e-commerce site. Are you seeing more of that on Flexport? About 10 percent of our shipments are bound to Amazon and probably more than that are sold via Amazon because some people do fulfillment not using Amazon's fulfillment, even though they're sold on Amazon. I don't know the trends. If anything, Amazon's taking more and more market share of the world of e-commerce. Let's do an MBA question before we go further into Flexport. So Matt Susk asked, what are your important takeaways from Columbia Business School? And would you encourage other entrepreneurs to do the same? Yeah. And so I think here in Silicon Valley, we have a bias. Not we. I do not have this bias. I love MBAs. We've hired a lot of great people with MBAs. But there's a bias, certainly in the venture community against founders. And you think MBAs don't make great founders or something. And it's probably true, but it's a sample bias. Like the average person going to MBA to do a business school degree is not a great founder. They're meant to be a middle manager. But if you take someone who's a good founder and they spent two years studying business full time, like surely that would make you better at business. Like hopefully. Um, so it's, but it's the average person going in is not cut out for that. But that has nothing to do with the business school degree. So I think having a business school degree has helped me immensely in understanding the principles of accounting and revenue recognition and real basic fundamentals, finance, cap tables, discount rating, discounted cash flow. These are core principles of of a modern business person to let you thrive and um help me tremendously not worth the 140k in debt that i graduated with probably not um so i i tend to recommend business school to people who are rich and like your family's gonna pay for it so or that it's a great experience but like if you're gonna graduate the 140k in debt it's pretty brutal it'll really limit your future opportunities and i hate to see people make life choices because they're in debt yeah and they need to make you know it's like kind of i don't i don't like to live with permission from other people much less like some bank that i have to decide what job i'm going to get based on some anonymous financial institution who lent me money. That's kind of crappy. Yeah. I mean, if you need to kick in two or three grand a month, like a lot of people can't start companies. That's a huge amount of money. Right. And so especially, yeah, after tech. So I think it's, I think it's very important for people to have a pretty good plan. Like I, I, I didn't have a great plan, but I worked one out. And I've written an article about this. If you Google like NBA debt, Ryan Peterson, it's on the internet somewhere about how to, what I did, which was find these part-time jobs and generate some income while I was so that I could, I believe, I don't know timeframes like even Flexport. I don't know what timeframe will be successful, but I know that if we stay in the fight, we'll win. Yeah. And timeframe will be successful. But I know that if we stay in the fight, we'll win. Yeah. And you just want to make sure you set yourself up in a way that you can't lose because you're in the fight in perpetuity and like, you'll just keep finding new hacks. So I didn't know what business I was going to make successful, but I knew that I would do it. And if I, as long as I could make those debt payments, make my rent and like afford some food, then I buy myself an indefinite period of time to experiment. Right. And so what was the point at which, because the idea of Flexport kind of was in a holding pattern for like three years, I think you said, until you were approved for a certain license. At what point did you commit to doing Flexport? When did you know it was going to happen? So March 31st of 2013 is when we were granted the license by U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Protection. And so I started working on the idea in like 2010. Flexport, there was three years there waiting for the government to approve the FBI background check. Any income at that point, no revenue. And were you getting anything? It was not a business yet there was i was still working on my previous business okay um and uh flexport was a side project and then after three years finally got granted the license and made it full-time job like basically the next day right on uh so there is a question then uh about your first so this is from tyler hoge uh yes how did you get your first three clients um they've the earliest customers for flexport we got via google adwords and seo and just signups people just finding us on the internet signing up for the service really yeah um in fact pre-launch so when i was still experimenting and i built the landing page that is now for the service that is now that is now Flexport and we had not yet launched anything. We hadn't received the license yet. I was just figuring out like would people buy this service if it existed? It was just a marketing page website. And we got Foxconn signed up. Who makes the iPhone? Cargill signed up like one of the biggest ad companies in the world. And then one day Saudi Aramco signed up. The National Oil Company of Saudi Arabia signed up like one of the biggest ag companies in the world and then one day saudi aramco signed up the the national oil company of saudi arabia signed up for my fake website i'm like oh man this is gonna be a big company i need to get this license so oh man that's so did you jump the gun and just start emailing them no i didn't because i wasn't licensed i was just like an experimental thing like i don't know i didn't know how to do the business. I was just seeing it. Would people buy this service if it exists? Again, I don't think I'm not a big risk taker. It was just like, I don't want to start this hard business unless I know people are going to want it. Yeah. And so how did you, uh, how did you verify that people actually wanted it? I mean mean they're going to pay you. Well, I knew, so Flexport emerged out of, yeah, I had this business selling shipping manifest data, but that actually evolved and emerged out of a business that my brother and I and our same business partner, Michael Kanko, ran buying scooters and buying products in China. And so I had felt the pain firsthand of freight forwarding, that there's this information asymmetry and the forwarder, global trade is kind of a black box and the freight forwarder knows how it works and you don't. And they use that against you. They use that to make money off you. And so I had been, I had felt the pain firsthand of this whole industry back in early 2000s when I was still selling stuff on eBay and Amazon and stuff. And, I knew from first principles from having experience that it was a good idea. I didn't know that big companies had the same problem, right? So when they started signing up, I was like, oh, this is even bigger than I thought. But I already kind of knew just from firsthand experience that this was an ugly industry and that software could make it better. It was kind of like the only real principle that i had i didn't know that much about the underlying problems i'd never been a freight forwarder so i'd only seen the tip of the iceberg like what's customer facing as a problem i didn't know why the the reasons why the forwarders acted the way they did um and the other parties involved so i had but it was enough to set us off in the track and say hey let's go my hypothesis is simply like software could teach the importer more about this but documents are needed etc totally but at that point so you're are you a competent programmer or because you're a solo founder right yeah so what what did the product even look like so three years you get your license what do you do uh three years got the license immediately hired uh three rails developers and so i had made money in previous business and was able to hire some programmers and i was kind of the first pm and yeah and had some programmers working for me yep and so you just built it out from there did were you thinking about bringing in your brother or a separate business partner to be co-founders? So my brother actually, and I really like sort of biological analogies in business. I think of business as each business is kind of an organism in an ecosystem and a competitive environment around it and needs to buy and sell from its vendors, just like an organism needs to find environment around it and needs to buy and sell from its vendors, just like an organism needs to find sources of nutrients out there in the wild, right? And so in the evolutionary tree of Flexport, it kind of goes back to importgenius.com, which is this data service for global trade. And before that, the importing business that we ran together. And I think at the Import Genius stage, which is taking public record, making them searchable and selling subscriptions, the tree kind of forked. And so my brother, who was my co-founder there, left before me even and started a company taking public data. So we had found this public data and found interesting ways to make it useful and make money off it. He said, what other public data is out there? And found the building permit for every remodeling project and every construction project in the United States is a public record. And so are the permit. So are the licenses for the contractors. And so he built this search engine for contractors that shows you dynamic profiles of their work and went to YC and got into YC with that. So he actually did YC before me one year prior. It's called build zoom. It's kind of the flex board of remodeling. And, and, and so he had left to do that. I tagged along with him, came to Palo Alto. He was in YC. I lived in the apartment. It was helping him. I snuck into YC a couple of times and saw Paul speak. And like, I was like, I want to do YC. Um, and so kind of following in my brother's footsteps as I always have, I came and did it. But we were kind of spiritual co-founders helping each other with our businesses along the way. Okay. And so at what point do you guys, are you based in New York at that point? Or are you full on moved to California? I moved to California to start Flexport. And I think that was one of the better things I've done. Import Genius, I started in New York and then moved to arizona when we put a call center and our sales service center in place and um i didn't want flexport i didn't think that we could stand out we don't want to be a freight forwarder we're a technology company that's that's making freight better with technology and i thought that story would be hard to recruit the talent and the capital in arizona yeah but in silicon valley, as part of YC, it makes sense. So I think Flexport could only be founded in Silicon Valley. We'll see if that's true in 10 years from now, but I think that's still true today. Do you hire most of your engineers here? All of them, yeah. All of them, okay. Because there are a bunch of questions about you guys being all over the world. Yep. So just one is uh varun kuhurana asks what's your strategy for rapidly hiring the best talent in so many different global hubs because you guys have like five offices no we're in 11 offices we're all over the world we're in um two offices in europe hamburg in amsterdam okay um we're in shenzhen and hong kong in china and then kind of five offices plus warehouses in the US. We have three warehouses. We have a 747. We have our own plane. Our strategy for hiring talent is, well, what we look for, we like Flexport has my COO, my business partner calls it insecure overachievers is our profile. We want people who are like really hungry but but humble and they want to prove something to the world and they're super smart but they don't necessarily realize how great they are um and that that's that's been a great formula for us it's hard to identify but um this i've heard this on multiple occasions from people who are saying like um the kind of like the state school mentality versus like you know going to Columbia for example they're just like you find the smartest kid from like UMass and they don't even know that they're a diamond in the rough yeah I mean we're happy to hire you can find these people at the top schools too around the world you know I don't know how different it is in in everywhere we do hire local recruiter recruiting people we don't we like to have a very decentralized work structure i think it's very entrepreneurial um i think rather i think entrepreneurs get more done and are better so rather than having one recruiting team here that's totally specialized in expert in each function i'd rather have a generalist recruiting reporting to the head of that office in tag team. That would be better than even the best recruiter who's totally specialized in one function like sales sitting in one place. I'd rather have an entrepreneur with a recruiter paired up will do better than a totally specialized recruiting organization. So that's the way we've tried to organize. And I think that's true for most functions. And then culture wise, do you, do you bring a few people over to start a new office? How do you, yeah, we'll always send, now we try to send eight people to a new office and launch it and get them to actually move there. Oh, wow. And for, for a year, for wherever, hopefully forever. Although I don't think there is forever in the modern world we get people we really encourage generalists uh and and and that requires rotations whether it's geographic rotation moving to a new office or rotation to a new function uh within the org so you'll we've we love to encourage people to move try different jobs and uh yeah part of that is launching new offices man what would have been some challenges in scaling because you said you were 400 in sf 400 in sf how many 850 worldwide man what would have been some challenges in scaling because you said you were 400 in sf 400 and sf how many 850 worldwide man yeah what have been the challenges in scaling to almost a thousand people the the the core challenges of flexport and they never go away today because we've had epic product market fit since before we even launched right like saudi aramco signing up that's crazy flexport has never had a problem with demand. People want what we do. We're creating a better way and cheaper way to ship freight, which is a trillion dollar industry. Literally, logistics is 12% of global GDP. 12% of every dollar made by every person on planet Earth goes into logistics. And I think much of the back pressure against the rest of the economy is the fact that this industry, which is the circulatory system for global trade is inefficient. And so all the other companies are therefore made inefficient because their circulatory system's got a lot of cholesterol in it. And so we've never had a problem with demand. We have a problem fulfilling that demand, actually doing a good job. Like operations is hard. Logistics is tough. And so it's getting, um, so product market is epic. Logistics is tough. And so it's getting – so product market fit is epic. That gives you – the market demands that you respond, that you hire enough talent to do it, that you – and the people will come because they're attracted to that growth and the product market fit. So the remaining problems are all – almost all culture, closely related is compliance, following all this very regulated industry a lot of people not from the industry we have to teach them all the rules make sure you have good checklists and processes to to avoid ever breaking them um and and then just the complexity of the network the business that we're building like how do you make sure that we can keep things simple defined it's all culture related yeah um defining Defining decision rights. Who's allowed to make, how do you keep people out of each other's way? How do you resolve conflicts in the company? Have you been just, you know, talking to other entrepreneurs, reading books, like what's been the most influential thing for you in terms of- Always books. I read books every, I read a book every week at least. What's good? Well, my favorite book in the world is called Origin of Wealth, which is about evolution and biology and business. I actually think this will be controversial in some circles here in Silicon Valley, but one of my favorite business books in the last five years is Good Profit by Charles Koch. Okay. The Koch brother, Koch Industries. Yeah, of course. But it's an incredible book about, about, uh, the role of business and society and how to define, uh, culture within a company and define decision rights and allow people to make, um, to, to move fast and be what he calls a principled entrepreneurs that get all your employees to have principles and be entrepreneurial. Um, but yeah, culture is our biggest challenge as a company. The, uh, my definition of culture of good culture is that you have engaged team members like that. Everybody there is engaged with their work. And what engagement means is you're getting more out of your job than you're putting in. It's very high bar to clear, but you, to do it, you it's compensation of course, but you get pretty quickly. We're all on the hedonic treadmill and get used to that yeah so then it's do you feel like you're creating value at work do you like the people that you're working with are you learning do you see a career path are you there opportunities for you to grow um and i'm sure there's some intangible things too like what's your office environment is it comfortable etc but those those tend to matter less too i did see those uh room phone boxes that you uh did you help start that or you like you just own one room yeah yeah yeah i started um a company to make uh i i helped to start a company that makes phone booths for offices called get room.com although i i named it phone booths.com and bought the domain for the company and they which we also own but they they like oh it's it's too generic they needed acier name, but I really like the phone booths.com. Just keep it simple. But yeah, I think offices are too loud. I 100% agree. And so every office needs a phone booth where you can go and make a quiet phone call. So we made those and we sell them on that website. How are you actually measuring this? What was the metric? You didn't say engagement, but it's like getting more out of your job than you put in. Yeah. How do you measure that? Well, this is why culture is so hard to scale because it's not a formula and it's done through conversation. It's done through great management, great leadership, but management, like talking to the people, caring about them, listening to their challenges. And you can't do that for 800. I can't do that for 850 people. So you've got to have great managers up and down the chain. There's a lot of training, a lot of understanding people. What do they want? What are they trying to get? Are they getting it? And that's why culture is really hard to scale because the more people you have, the more equations you have to keep track of. How many direct reports do you recommend having for an average person? Average person should not have any reports. Just chill. For the average manager, I don't know, maybe eight. You want to be able to meet with each of your reports for an hour a week in a one-on-one. Okay. And beyond, if you're doing more than eight hours, that's 20% of your time right there for a week. And so more than that is probably not good. Okay. Scaling that culture is just like the key challenge of any business. Once you get product market fit, the world of demand of you. And I think one of the things I've been, I've been fortunate at Flexport in that I had never been a freight forwarder. So there was a never, never a moment at Flexport where I could tell everyone what to do. Yeah. I never knew like, you should do this, you should do that. And so at no point did the company ever depend on what Ryan told people to do. I knew that global trade is an incredibly important thing in the world. In fact, I think it's the trade is the thing that separates us from the animal kingdom that we were at. We figured out how to trade and therefore all the collective learning that goes into that if i make a product i know all the ideas that go into that product i'm exchanging with you so i'm giving you my ideas this is what allowed humans to defeat all the other hominid species because we could work together effectively and specialize and they couldn't yeah so it's really in the in the human experience is intricately related to the rise of humanity. And nothing in the last 50 years lifted more people out of poverty than the opening of adoption of free market economic policies in the East, in particular in China and India and other places. And yet trade is still too hard. You're talking about possibly the most important trend in the world economy. And anyone who's tried to do it will tell you it's a nightmare. And so that was my guiding principle. It was like, here's something incredibly important to humanity that's way too hard. Let's attract a bunch of super smart people, show them the problem, help them organize themselves, and let them make the decisions. And that's really helped us. Now, it took five years from the first time I had the idea to the first dollar of revenue was five years, four years of which it was just me and no other employees. And, um, and so we had, I known everything about logistics and I'd been a freight forwarder. I think we'd had revenue in the first year. We'd got licensed right away. I, we would have gotten to some scale much faster yeah but it would have depended on me and stopped scaling because i it would have been like you know the train the director trying to tell everyone to do instead of like right the grandpa saying like well let's see if i can help us organize and teach you know like teach you the lessons of my career instead of and and that's a much better place for a company to try to scale long term to build a culture right is like a leader like that um so i think my naivete around forwarding actually turned out to be a good thing in the long run because i can focus on culture on recruiting on org design instead of on telling people what to do right yeah i mean you could if you were coming from the industry have all these preconceived notions that may have set you up for failure if you didn't realize. But are many of your employees freight industry veterans? About 20%. We try to hire one out of every five or six people from the industry. We think we need that expertise. My principle is five or six people because most teams should have five or six people on it. And I want one person in the room who's done it before, but not two. Cause then they'll gang up and, and, uh, and you know, you want one to make sure you're not doing really stupid decisions, but you don't want to, because then they'll form a coalition and convince people that they must do it that way. And it's like, rather just like hear the voice. Um, they're often right, but not always. Okay, cool. We want to challenge those assumptions. Let's do some Twitter questions. You have a ton. I mean, you were the first podcast guest to proactively answer all of them. I hope I didn't ruin that. No, no, no, no. We got some good stuff. So I'm curious about this last one on the first page. Jasim Ali asks, how has the Trump policy on foreign trade affected your business so far? Yeah. It's tough to see our customers get wrapped up in it. We've had a lot of, it was only about 2% of our shipments were affected by the first round of tariffs. So by commercial invoice value. So about 2% of our total shipments got slapped a 25% tariff on them. So it's not really material for us yet as a business. And yet if you're one of those 2%, it's super material. Yeah. We've had, we had a company makes an air purifier, great company, female entrepreneurs have been to our office, hung out with us, done like, you know, sessions teaching our team about their business and stuff that got hit with this. And it's like, oh, it's brutal. You're like millions of dollars of extra charges that they're totally out of their control. And these supply chains, especially for electronics, can't move. South China is where you're going to produce that stuff. There's not infrastructure and subcontractors and other vendors to make consumer electronics outside of the Shenzhen, Guangdong province. It's just not. And you can't go to another country. Yeah. So that's brutal. I hate anything bad for our customers. I hate. On Flexport's perspective, I think, one, we've got to be the best. And I think we are in responding to that. Because we have a database, within five minutes and one SQL query, we're able to tell every customer exactly who who's affected how much what is this going to do to you we were i think it lets us differentiate from our competition and um and then help them plan around it right now our business it's august our business grew 50 in the last two weeks which is crazy because we're a big business already um but right and we're not getting too excited because we think a lot of that, there are new tariffs coming. And we think a lot of that business that we're seeing now, this is a huge surge for August is not supposed to be a time of year when your business goes on fire. Usually it's closer to the holiday season, but we think a lot of businesses are actually pulling their imports forward to import the stuff before the tariff gets slapped on it. So we'll see how it plays out. We're not getting too excited about the growth. This is sort of a tangential question, but I heard you mention on another podcast the holidays and shipping prices. Can you go over that? Because I was fascinated. You said it was like at some point there's a 10X increase on freight. How does that break down? Okay. Well, one of the reasons i love this industry is because it is so tied trade is so deep into economics yeah and you have uh you have supply and demand balances on all these things and air freight in particular is a fascinating one because an airplane 50 people don't realize but 50 of all the air cargo in the world is actually moved on passenger planes in the in the belly of the passenger plane. This is why they have a luggage fee, because they actually have an opportunity cost. They put someone else's cargo in there if they don't put your bag in. And that's a really interesting situation that you don't often see, where the supply for the market of air freight is actually totally disconnected from the demand. It's connected to the demand for passenger tickets. And so that's going to always lead to fundamental imbalances in the air freight markets. And what'll happen, air freight is quite a seasonal business. The economy runs on Christmas. Air freight, on average, about five times more expensive than ocean freight. So right before Christmas season is you want to bring everything in and get it in and sell it. And if you don't get it in in those two-week period, you might never sell it. So it's worth it to fly over, even if it's five times more expensive. Now, the moment that that plane is full, which happens every November and every October, really, the planes get full. every November and every October, really. The planes get full. Now the price goes to whoever's got the highest marginal value out of that last kilo of space, which tends to be, you can probably guess which company is making the most per rectangle about this size. And they're willing to, you know, if you make 600 bucks on an iPhone, I think their margin, I've seen the breakdowns, they make like 400 bucks or something, according to that iSupply company. And it costs a buck to ship it. Do you really care if it costs $5 to ship it? So all of a sudden, the price can go crazy. And the price, this is classic economic theory. The price set in the market goes to the marginal value of the last person, whoever's willing to pay the most. So air freight market will spike every kind of q4 it just goes out of control so so that that growth that you guys are seeing right now um are these pre-existing customers these are new customers signing up is it everything it's pre-existing pre-existing new new customers for us our customer base is so big now that a new customers it's not gonna it's not really material in any given period. It takes a long time to build up a base. We have about 3,000 paying customers now. Yeah, because we were talking before recording about your outbound sales. And there was another related question. So PowerDecal asks, how do you poach clients from legacy providers? And just in general in terms of your revenue like i'm curious about how how the sales cycle works for you how how it happens yeah so flexport got to 200 million dollars in revenue without having a marketing team and that was dumb that was a great lesson for me because i consider myself a growth hacker and a marketer and that was the one area of the business where i didn't go out and hire people better than me yeah soon enough yeah to do the job i thought because you were just blogging right like kind of blogging a lot of seo really i didn't do much i just thought that i knew this space and so i didn't invest it's really silly it's a good lesson for you as an entrepreneur you got to like take yourself out of the things. Yeah. And that was the last one I removed myself from. So Flexport is a 98% outbound sales. Maybe it's 95% outbound sales model. Like we build lists of companies importing things. It happens that I started the business that has all the lists of people who import things. And, and, and we call them and we show them our value proposition. And so how we poach customers from legacy clients is show them, we're going to give you more visibility and control over your freight, over your international freight at the same price point. And so at some point, as long as you trust that we're not scammers, at some point that becomes irrational, not if it's better service, same price. And eventually we will be better and cheaper. We often are, but not always. It's irrational not to move your business. As long as you can trust us on, there's a lot of compliance involved. These are complex processes. You're running a supply chain. You are turning over your circulatory system to a new provider. So it's not without risk and the sales cycle is not easy by any means um but if we can you know prove that we're not going to totally screw up your business and you'll get more visibility where's my stuff when is it going to arrive more data yeah what you've shipped we're the single best view into all the economic activity inside your own company yeah how did you create trust like that in the beginning because i could i mean it's not just these legacy customers working with legacy providers it's across the whole this whole industry it's kind of arcane how did you um i mean i guess you had this license but how did you project that like confidence to say like oh you can trust us we will make it happen i don't know we had we had smart people um great early sales entrepreneurial sales and every entrepreneur needs an entrepreneurial salesperson. Usually it's the entrepreneur themselves, but you got to have that. And a lot of it's underrated. I'll think a lot in Silicon Valley where we think it's just about engineering talent and who's the best engineer. And they forget that you've got to have someone, what entrepreneurial sales is very different than regular sales, regular sales. You want to get to know as fast as you can. So you stop wasting your time and get to the next person who will say yes. You want to get to know within five minutes, ideally. Yeah. That's great. If someone hangs up on you, cool. I can go to the next one. Totally. Entrepreneurial sales is the opposite. You want to get to yes. If you're saying yes, I will ship with you if, and then what's that if statement? And you don't promise it. You just get, now you can bring that back to your product and engineering teams and say, these guys will ship with us if we can. Yeah. And 95% of the time it'll be absurd and you can't do it. Well, this is a huge challenge that breaks a lot of businesses. They end up building all these like custom features for every, you know, quote big client, but all of a sudden the big client is now like your tiny client. Yeah. And it just eats them up. Um, totally. And so we, we would, we would get yes. If from, and we would always get a yes, but yeah, 99, 95 to 99% of the time it was something you couldn't do or didn't wouldn't do. Right. So you're going to have real discipline of what you're going to do and make sure it's something that, yes, this makes sense this will make sense for lots of our customers this is on our roadmap anyways let's pull it forward um and so we did that for the head of supply chain for a major watchmaker okay and we went down whiteboarded it with him showed him he whiteboarded it for us this is what i want from my dashboard i want to see all my shipments anything that's going to be late by at least 24 hours i want it to turn red and i want to know why. And if there's any action I need to take, I want that to be elevated in the system. Show me what I need to do to fix it. We're like, that's brilliant. That's cool. A month later, we came back and this was when I knew we had a good company because I was on vacation. And usually when I go on vacation, I neurotically check my email the whole time. But on this vacation, I was in a Caribbean island with no service. And I just was like, I'm out. I came back and they had built this. They'd gone down there, talked to this guy, built the map, built what he wanted. Yeah. And I came back and like our whole user interface was different. I was like, that is a good company. They're like willing to just change the whole product when the ceo is out knowing this is the right thing to do um and we went back down to meet the client again and he said you all turned me into a computer programmer i've got to ship some freight with you so then he said yes if i will ship with you if you can get me this price and at that time that price was half of what we were paying so we couldn't't do it. But we now had a target, and we could go back to the ocean carriers and say, I will bring you the world's, one of the world's largest watchmakers as a customer if you can get me this price, which is a market price. We just weren't paying market pricing. Because you were too small. We were too small and didn't know people and didn't have relationships. But months we went back and won his business and then it's kind of like lots and lots of those cycles we won't build custom software for anybody but if your idea is normal is like something that we would want to build reasonable and it's good and it makes good for all of our customers we'll do it right and so because you guys still compared to like the biggest freight forwarders what's your relative size we are now we last month we passed fedex and panalpina which are we're now number 17 oh out of about 20 000 freight forwarders in the world in four years so and that's um we are still one-fifth of the largest right on the Trans-Pacific, which is Asia to US. Now, the largest in the world only has 2% market share. So, it's not enough to be number one, I think, then we don't want to get to number one and then stall out like they did. Our goal is to get to 20 or 40% market share. If you do that, you're the biggest company on planet Earth. Yeah. Like full stop, like bigger than Saudi Aramco. You figure they stalled out. Why? Lack of technology. It's all people. The biggest has 2% share and 60,000 employees. So if they want to go to 20% share and they don't have any technology driving scale and efficiency, what do you end up with is 600,000 employees. And these are knowledge workers. These are troubleshooting consultants. They're not Foxconn factory workers following instructions. Yeah. So they just reach the limits of what a human organization can scale to. Where do you see automation in the next? Obviously, I know it most directly from container ports um but uh where do you see automation having the largest effect in your in your business um for us automation is often about delegation it's about getting the work to the right person to do it so the forwarder is kind of the coordinating layer in this relay race of unstructured data yeah and their job today and our team's jobs have to go out. So the forwarder is kind of the coordinating layer in this relay race of unstructured data. And their job today, and our team's job is to have to go out and get the data and then put it into our system. What you need to do is build interfaces so all those companies can directly pass it to you, whether it's through our API or on our web interface. And so it's delegating that task. Instead of our team doing it, let's have the customer give us. Right now, our customer calls the, our employee might have to call a customer, ask for some document, then put it into our system. Right. I don't want to create automation tools to make them better at calling customers, right? I want to create a great interface so that customer just uploads it themselves and makes it more pain-free. So that's pretty specific to our industry, which is this relay race of unstructured data. There's a great paper that I read about industries that are most susceptible to automation and freight forwarding was the number one on the list. It was like 99% of the work should be, that would be better done by software. And it's like academic paper. Do you agree? I don't know. It's pretty hard. There's a lot of human intelligence and tribal knowledge and things. But even that should be unlocked, right? Our competitors know more things than us. They have 60,000 employees, have tons of expertise. The biggest one was founded in 1890. Somewhere in that building building they know how to ship cargo using telegrams and steamships vacuum tubes you know yeah it's impressive and but you need to unlock that it's living in people's heads yeah and you what you want to do is put it into databases and make it instantly queryable so your customer can get the answer to whatever question they want instantly instead of like having to find the right expert and talk to them on the phone man so do you when you talk about like all of these entrepreneurial ideas you have on the side do you have other ideas boiling in your head all the time for okay yeah because there was i'm always recruiting founders and if if great we've had a few great people leave flexport not too many most people stayed forever but we've got a few great people leave and i'm always trying to convince them to like do one of my ideas with me on the side dude yeah this is not with me i don't have time i spend a maximum like the phone booth company they hate me they kick me off the board because i really hate me but they kick me off the board because i have no time to spend on it i'm okay all in on flex board um but um uh i yeah i have a lot of good business ideas, most of which will work. I now know from the phoneboost.com is like crushing it. They make so much revenue, even though YC rejected them. But it happens. I'll have to read the notes because, yeah, this is a question that I love. I mean, so many people do at YC do the same thing that to the extent that I think it should be like a page on your book face profile, the network where it's like these are ryan's like white whale ideas like if he tries to convince you to like pivot your company into this like you are forewarned uh but uh yeah someone else asked uh jason yannis asked if you weren't operating flexport and had to source a new idea to work on where would you start yeah i um i always start with what are pains that you experience? Again, in that schlep blindness article, Paul Graham, schlep blindness is a, a schlep is a Yiddish word for an arduous journey. And so a schlep blindness is where your conscious brain won't actually allow you to think about a problem. It's like, there's no possible way I could solve this problem. It's too big of a problem. I's like, there's no possible way I could solve this problem. It's too big of a problem. I'm not going to go there. And that training yourself to allow, let yourself get annoyed by the annoying things in life. Yeah. Like that's something I'm, you people know me will know. I just like complain about bullshit all the time. Like what the hell is, why does this company hate money so bad? Like you see that all the time. Oh yeah. Yeah. Um, and I'm, I'm someone who lets myself get frustrated by that and then keeps lists of like, wow, I could make a ton of money if I just solve this problem. Um, and so what's the question that Paul asked? And it's one of PG's essays called schlep blindness. I highly recommend it. And the question that he says is rather than asking what problem should I solve? What company should I start? You should say, what problem do I wish someone else would solve for me? And then that's probably a good idea. If there's enough people like you, then that's a good idea. So that I would ask that question. What are the problem? And so example, the, the office phone booths, I think offices are way too loud and I get really annoyed by all the people talking and I want a quiet place. And I also like privacy when I talk on the phone. So I wanted a quiet room. I hired guys on Craigslist to make phone booths for me. They were terrible. They were hot. You would sweat. They were dark. It was like kind of creepy in there. And yet at Flexport, we had people in those booths all day, every day, they would come out sweaty. It was, people would make make fun of it and yet it was used all day i'm like if the product is this bad yeah and people are still using it this is a good thing so um got i pulled together some team members so the founders of that company and said hey let's make this thing super cheap flat pack so you can assemble it uh cool so it's not too hot like cool temperature wise yeah yeah look good and boom these guys are selling millions of dollars worth of biz. So it's find that annoyance in your life. And for Flexport, it's, well, most of the good businesses that I have today will just be offshoots of Flexport. Cargo insurance is a great new business. We now have a business that makes loans to our customers, trade finance. loans to our customers, trade finance. Loans for anything? To buy inventory. To buy inventory, okay. Which we secure with the inventory that they already, if you don't pay us back, I'll just sell your stuff on eBay. It's a very credible threat. That's where I started my career. So, yeah, but it's always about finding what, you know, if it's not something that's annoying you, you've got to really talk to your customers and what's what's annoying you talk to potential customers right and and yeah just another like because because yeah you've done all these landing pages how are you talking to your customers at the time and you know like were you putting money down on you know se like adwords uh facebook ads at the time and then just emailing them to see if they're really interested or you're just good at like creating a landing page um 10 years ago when i first started doing these landing pages for flexport or eight years ago i was seo was different and easier i think and i would like i knew how it worked and now i don't know that much about how to rank in google for things but we were pretty good at ranking for for keywords um and would get traffic that way our first customers for flexport were all um google adwords customers but that was like once i had a product to sell okay um because i think this is like such a common challenge for people where they're like oh man say say they are particularly attuned to the problems in their lives then it's like how do i like launch in a way where i can validate and like de-risk this venture whatever it might be. And you know, you can only do it to such an extent, but I'm just wondering if you have pro tips. I, it takes some sense. Like I, some people have, you gotta not believe your own BS and make sure that other people agree with you that this is good. And like, so the phone booth thing, for example, I had that idea and i'd seen it i'd built some really crappy ones like with a carpenter i hired on craigslist like i told you about so i knew it was a good idea and i just talked about it all the freaking time at parties okay and everybody i ever talked to was like yeah i will buy five of those i mean i could i probably sell five booths to yc right now if i walk out we have ones and they're terrible. They smell weird. They're hot. Totally. So you got everyone I've ever talked to who has a startup would buy one of these. And so there's only so long you can go before you're like, everybody wants to buy this product. Right. And eventually one of my friends who I did YC with was like, Ryan, let's do that business. I want to do it. I'm like, okay, I'll put in I will spend a maximum of five hours total because I have a really big important company to run. Yeah. Um, but, um, and yeah, success compounds too. Like I, I don't think I could have just spun that up on the side if I wasn't, um, yeah, of course. Well, Flexport similarly, like when you were getting started, like you had the cash around to hire developers. Yeah. Which came from my previous business. Exactly. And I think I actually spoke once on a fundraising panel at YC and they've never invited me back because I think I was too real. And I was like, look, if no investors want to invest in your business, that's your fault. You should do a different business. Like there's lots of businesses that don't need any investor money. Yeah. Do that. And then earn the credibility. do that and then earn the credibility success compounds, like build up, you know, or use your own money to fund it because, and there's plenty of businesses like go start a consulting firm to help people with SEO. I promise you, people will pay you to do that. If you, you know, or like go find a way to make money in this world and not, don't wait for investors to give you permission to start a business. It's kind of a lame way to live. And I hate that when founders are like, Oh, oh, if only this investor would give me money, then I would make it my full-time job. I'm like, just pick a different idea. Totally. It's one of the biggest downsides of the VC industry as it exists right now. It's created all of these like thought leaders around businesses that have, that require venture capital funding. And it's like pigeonholed people to create businesses that need it. And therefore, if they can't figure out how to be the darling in the startup VC mind, their business will never work. Yeah. And success compounds, you know, I, I did startups and we never called them startups. We were just trying to make money for 10 years before I raised my first venture capital dollar. And I didn't know what the first thing about venture capital, uh, until I got into YC and even then, And so I think that that is a, it's a bit toxic. Now I know that people in YC should raise money and go do that, so I know why my advice is controversial to people, but at the same time, it's like also investors want to invest in things where they're like, this guy's gonna do it with or without me. Totally. Totally. Like she's got this. I better invest now before she runs off and leaves me behind. That's the best case scenario where there's so much FOMO. They're like, listen, Ryan's making money hand over fist. He doesn't need me at all. Therefore, that's the best possible investment because they're trying to de-risk. Right. Now, you don't want to be a faker, but on some level, you've got to believe that you're going to do this with or without the investors. And then all of a sudden, the investors will line up. Totally. All right. We're almost out of time. But you've now been doing Flexport for quite a while. We have a lot of early founders that listen to this podcast. What would you tell yourself at the beginning? What are the biggest lessons learned? You know, one of the most interesting lessons learned, and I used to say this wasn't useful. Um, but, but I think more and more, I think it is, is the degree to which success compounds. And the reason I say that I used to think that's not useful because like, well, what does it say? Just be more successful. And you were going to do that anyways. But as I've reflected more on it, I actually think it's an extremely important lesson because if success compounds, well, we know the nature of compound interest. And it means you should save small amounts of money and put it in your bank account and let it compound. Yeah. And that speaks very much to agile development methodologies, customer development, getting that yes if, getting the little wins that they matter much more than it seems because they're going to compound on themselves. the little wins that they matter much more than it seems because they're going to compound on themselves and that you know the way it looked in flex sports cases like a decade of small wins and successes that got us into y combinator y combinator got us google ventures to invest which got us our cto which got a you know sort of like this which got built the product that got the customers and it's just this law eventually you can unlock these crazy lollapalooza effects of of compounding success yeah um but it does speak to like being agile getting small wins celebrating them as you go instead of trying to make this master plan for the future let it evolve let it go with like little wins at a time um that that the humanity could not have existed at the Big Bang. We would have been killed under the pressure. And you need to slowly evolve the thing, and eventually you'll get where you want to be. Also, de-risk things. Venture capital is quite risky. These people need a return. Never take debt unless you're profitable. You've got to live up to your expectations of all those six kinds of stakeholders. And if your investors are getting screwed by something you're doing, that is not going to work. So don't raise more money than you need to. Like make sure everybody's winning in the process, except your competitors. And then you're golden. Golden. All right. If people want to follow you online, where should they go? Well, i don't know if that's a good idea my twitter is types fast yep cool all right thanks man okay thanks a lot thanks for hosting me you