 All right, welcome to the podcast. Thanks for having me. So today, Jarvis Johnson, who is a software engineer and YouTube creator, recently independent YouTube creator. Yeah, it's almost like the reverse now. Now I'm a YouTube creator and a software engineer. Yeah, I've been wondering that. So I was first drawn to you because you were posting these software videos. So Matt Hackett, who is Casey Neistat's co-founder, he posted one of your videos. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. He posted one of your videos. Oh, I didn't know. I know he followed me on Twitter. I didn't know he posted one of my videos. But yeah, yeah. That was, I think when I started out, I was trying a bunch of things. And the first video that I had that got any traction was actually on Facebook, where I posted a video that was making fun of the technical interview in the software industry. And I posted it in a Facebook group called Hackathon Hackers or something like that. And they kicked me out for self-promotion. But before they did, it had started going viral. It got like 300,000 views or something. Oh, okay. So I was like, all right, guys. Yeah, I mean, there's so many things I want to cover. But this is like an interesting angle. Because you're both the beneficiary of the software industry, but then criticizing it too. I'm wondering how you tow that line. Well, I think that the way I think about it is that the software industry is extremely popular and has gotten off kind of scot-free and extremely glorified for a really long time. off kind of scot-free and extremely glorified for a really long time and being in it and being someone who like had had this dream of entering the industry and like and you know being a productive contributing member of it and then coming and doing that i i both was really gratified with the work that i've been able to do but also realize there's a lot of stuff that people aren't talking about for whatever reason um and and just like liking to make fun of things or like or liking to try and be funny and and criticize things it seemed like a good sort of opportunity yeah it's kind of like a softball yeah yeah because i was like wow it's like we everyone complains about this stuff and and a lot of comedy is just like connecting uh how what with what people are already feeling and thinking so yeah that's when uh when we did comedy hack day we put out this video called well deserved which was a place to sell your privilege i don't know if you ever saw that video i didn't it was really good but basically like this was of the time when a sandwich video just happened and every company was putting out the same kind of like soft music video with the big sweeping shots of San Francisco. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Put it out immediately works. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, I think that that's what things like Silicon Valley, the show do really well. And like, if you, I think I benefited from the fact that I can then condense down hopefully to something that was like palatable to people who were both in and outside of the industry. Yeah. But I mean, in spite of the criticism, I think you're actually doing a lot of good for the world, like getting people into programming. Yeah. Yeah. And I, um, thank you. I don't, I think that I don't think about that as much when I'm making this stuff, but I do still, to this day, get a lot of messages from people who tell me that, and I'm super grateful. And I feel a little guilty because nowadays I'm not talking as much about tech stuff, but I think it's because I needed a bit of a break from it because I was spending all my time working my tech job, and then if I was going home and working on tech videos, it felt like my whole life was consumed by uh by this industry when really there's like more dimensions to you know me as a person and also like what i wanted to do creatively yeah of course which i want to talk about but i also like want to cover the software oh absolutely yeah yeah so uh i watched one of your videos where you're talking about programming the ti-84 oh yeah but how did you get into it and then like how did you even end up moving to california okay yeah so um i you know the there there's like a longer story i've i've definitely tried to draw out this like narrative into a bunch of videos but the basic the basic story is that a friend of mine, who's still a really great friend of mine who lives in New York, turned me on to, he's a mobile developer at large now. He's just doing everything. But he turned me on to the TI-84, TI basic language. And so I started playing around with that in my chemistry class. And we would just like make silly games. I was just, I just remember like making a thing where I could just like move it theta around. Um, and that was like the coolest thing in the world to me, just being able to make something that didn't exist, even though it was like the most basic thing in the world. And then that was after we had already tried to learn C plus plus. So I went, I tried to learn C++. I tried to learn C++ when I was a sophomore in high school because I listened to a podcast called Geek Nights, which is like these two New York tech professionals who are talking about, I think there was just two 22-year-old guys who made this podcast after they graduated. And I found it when I was like 14. And I was like, oh, interesting. And I tried to learn the program and I failed. C++ is not a great first language to learn, especially if it's just from a book. And so then I came back to it with the TI basic and that was a little bit easier to go down. And then I didn't really care for, I wasn't passionate about any of the top, any of the subjects that I was taking in high school. So when it came time to pick a college major, computer science was a thing that felt more palatable to me. And then I went to Georgia Tech for my undergrad in computer science. And I just found such a supportive community there that it was able to help support, um, support my natural interest, but also like help me through the hard times because it's not like I, computer science is like not an easy degree, um, by any means. Um, and so was there a kind of an inkling like early on that you're like, Oh, okay. Like I could, I could do this. Um, doing like CS following that whole path, that career path, all of it. Well, oh yeah, that's a good, yeah. So the other part of the question was moving out to California and stuff. I think the first moment of even thinking about, I hadn't at any point thought about career, like anything beyond college. I was just like, oh, go to college and then you get a job, I guess. But at Georgia Tech, there were a lot of career fairs and there were a lot of companies visiting, excuse me, there were a lot of companies visiting for recruiting purposes. And I was like, oh, Facebook is here, Microsoft is here. These are just like things that I know of from like my computer screen, but they're like, there are actual people that work there. And there was kind of a culture of glorifying that a little bit where it's like, everybody's wearing company swag and then it becomes a thing that everybody wants. And it kind of felt a bit like a game to me, um, where that was like what people cared about you're supposed to do. So it's kind of like how, when your parents are like get good grades and you're like, not sure why you should get good grades. That's kind of how I felt. I was like, I guess I should go do this thing. But I was lucky enough to get some internships. And I interned at Google when I was a sophomore. And that was my first big moment of, whoa, this industry has got a whole thing happening. And from then on, I was like, OK, I'll probably come out here after I graduate. OK. And so then my understanding is then you interned at Yelp, right? And you decided to work there. Yeah, I decided not to go back to Google, not for any reason other than wanting to try something else. I don't know. I had a lot of peers who were doing an internship their sophomore year or their freshman year and then coming back over and over and over and over and then going to work at that company full time. And that never quite made sense to me because the company can never value the intern that much. And you miss out on getting a lot of experience with a bunch of very different companies because companies at different stages or even at exactly the same stage can operate completely differently and you're never really going to know what you like unless you try a couple of different things so i went to yelp just to like try something new and it was in san francisco and i didn't like living in the south bay when i was entering google uh and didn't want to do a big commute so yeah yelp was a good fit there. And I just had such good mentorship that I wanted to come back full time. Yeah, I think a lot of these jobs can create a scarcity mindset in people. And they think, oh man, I don't know if I could ever get the Google job again. And the reality is, most likely you can. Over a long enough time period, especially because there's definitely false negative rates and false positive rates in the interviewing process but there's also so many opportunities um that it's bound to even if you don't do well in the interview this year you can try every six months you can try every year and there's so many of those opportunities that something's going to land it really only takes one yeah i thought that was actually a really nice piece of advice that you gave because you actually you interviewed at yelp twice yeah and most people think like oh man on that i once i you know fail the facebook interview yeah it's because it's such a you grow so much and in so much changes i also didn't i also interviewed at google or interviewed for the google internship and failed it and then um got a call back for like a different program and and they used my failed interview, and I didn't have to interview again. So it was a weird situation. That's actually maybe a theme in my life. It's like, this seemed like a failure at the time, but it was actually not. I just framed it that way in my head. And so I want us to be mindful of how we frame our failures and the narratives of our lives because they may not actually be that, objectively speaking. Right. I mean, like you said, over a long enough time frame too. When you keep doing things, you keep getting up. Yeah, absolutely. Just keep getting up. I know. I mean, that's really the story of it all, especially with creators. Yeah. So at what point do you decide, okay, Yelp, this has been cool, I want to move to a smaller startup? So it was more, I definitely could have stayed at Yelp for a long time because I had a lot of good people around me that were supporting me and stuff like that. My rate of growth, at least as I was perceiving it personally, was slowing down. But it was more that this opportunity came up that was kind of not something that was in my purview, which was working at Patreon. I was in India at a wedding, and a friend of mine had just started working there and was like, hey, you should interview. And I was like, oh, wow, should I? I don't know. Because it had always been, I had been a fan of, my YouTube and tech career are very intertwined because I knew about Patreon because I've been following Hank and John Green, who are YouTubers who've been around since the beginning. And I've been following them since very early on in their YouTube careers. They had started something called Subbable that Patreon then acquired. And that's how I was aware of Patreon. So I was like, oh, I could be working on stuff that they care about and that they use. And that value proposition was enough for me to at least interview. And so it was really my proximity to YouTube that inspired me to make the change. And then that and I felt more confident in my technical skills because when I initially started out, I think I wanted to work at Google because I was afraid that I couldn't hack it at a smaller startup. Meaning that you wouldn't have mentors? Yeah, or that I didn't know enough. I did a lot of hackathons and stuff in college and I had all these friends who were just self-starters who knew, who could really just build something all their own um the full stack or whatever and i didn't feel super confident in my skill set like i i wanted to work at a bigger company because i felt that i would learn patterns i would develop a skill like something that i could then work work downward from and like know the know how things scale up for larger companies and then apply them um apply them to smaller companies but i i had enough confidence in myself at that point yeah it's not necessarily a bad idea either i mean i heard you mention you had student student debt when you graduated and i was in the same boat yeah like i didn't work at the big company. That's a different kind of pain. Yeah, no, I actually, that's another good example. I think there, there's a safety there. I think there's a lot of advice that's going to say like, oh, you might learn so much more at the startup. And it's like, maybe that's true. But I think you should be asking like, am I going to learn the right stuff? Am I going to learn good habits and good patterns? Or am I going to be trying to build something with the worry that the company's going to collapse on my shoulders? And I'm going to be doing that for far less money. And if you've got your own personal finances to take care of, or you've got dependents, or you're helping out your family and stuff, I think that the smart decision in a lot of, I know that the smart decision for me was to work at a bigger company out of college and take care of all that. Because, I mean, yeah, it was just like I, if I had student loans now, I wouldn't have been able to do half the stuff that I was able to do. I mean, it's also a complete mindset shift. Yeah. As soon as you're, you're in the black, you're like way more optimistic about things you could try out and you're able to invest, you know, all that money that you're investing in student loans. You can now invest in your own like financial safety net. Cause like that was not something that I had. And so I needed to build that for myself before I could think about kind of like put on your oxygen mask before like helping children or whatever yeah dude i i want to talk about this like in related to creative confidence and risk aversion but before we get there sure for sure uh i want to talk about you switching from an individual contributor as an engineer yeah to a manager right why did you want to do that so um i always enjoyed the and i always I enjoy the act of like engineering. I like making things. I like creative problem solving. But I had in the back of my head that like there were other ways for me to contribute to use more of my like full skillset. Cause I also had this background in college. Like I was a teaching assistant. I like breaking down the problems and I like the people aspects of, of the technical, the technical roles. And it wasn't that I felt better suited to that than anyone else, but it was more that I noticed that a lot of my, I noticed that it was rare that I cared about that stuff, that that stuff excited me as much as the, the technical problems. And in my, in my career, and in my life, I think about the rare combinations of skills that I have rather than the absolute value of those abilities. And I'm like, well, if I can take this technical ability, and I can also spend a lot of time talking to people and thinking about larger picture stuff, and also career development and stuff like that, that's something that I'm curious about. All that combined with the fact that I had a really good manager at Yelp who was like a an inspiration for what in an example of what like a good management could do for a team and that was like super cool to see and i was like wow like it would be neat to like walk in that person's like footsteps or to try to model myself after after that right well i think it's one of these things where you're studying it in school or on the side cs um and you think man this is fun but i don't want to completely live in the console right um and i very much felt like that doing like hackathons and stuff on the side you know like i was an english major like yeah yeah you know interacted with people right right right um but it's a little scary to think about yeah no that no, that's definitely a thing. In college, I lived that lifestyle, that sort of archetypal, what's the kind word to use? But I had my hood up. I was in my terminal. I used the cool Linux distributions or whatever. The sweet keyboard. Yeah, I didn't quite switch to Dvorak as my keyboard, but I judged people who were using Macs, which is like the loopiest one. But yeah, I lived that life a little bit and I just felt that I could combine more. Well, all of that's to say that I knew that I eventually wanted to try it out. But then the opportunity presented itself and it was at Patreon where I had already been there for almost two years and I had like a lot of trust and a lot of support from the people around me and in a pure circle of other like people in management so I wasn't like flying completely solo so it felt like the right environment to to try it and then I you know I did it for almost a year but the in in leaving the tech industry was not a function of not enjoying that role or not thinking. I think that if I were to rejoin the tech industry now, I don't know whether or not I would go for a leadership role or an IC role. But I know that I definitely had more fuel in me for keeping going with management. Do you think the management experience has made you a better individual contributor? Because now my understanding is it's just you, right? You're a one-man shop. Has it improved, I don't know, your goal setting, your efficiency, any of that kind of stuff? I think a lot about process. And I think that thinking about process and like operating efficiency is like a super valuable skill set to learn. That was another attractive thing about management is like, it would be cool to learn the types of things that would make me a good manager, whether or not I use them as a manager in my career, or I use them wherever I go next, or with whatever I do next. So yes, I do think about that. I think I value my time a lot more than I would have. I think I'm just more aware of time. I'm more likely to spend money to solve a problem as a business expense than I am to do it myself, even if the part of me that like grew up poor and doesn't like spending money is thinking, uh, Oh no, this is going to be a waste of money. I I'm, I'm better at sort of arranging the pieces to go, no, no, no, this is like the right way to. Yeah. Well, that's also, that's also a dangerous trap where you like, you think I can do it better than anyone else, therefore I have to do this incredibly time-intensive process? That's another thing that's super valuable about management. It's giving away and trust. Not being the person to actually write the code in a lot of situations is a super valuable exercise because you have to delegate and you have to you have to trust um and you have to know that you're yeah the whole thing doesn't rest on you i think that that's like a useful skill for anybody to have yeah no i love the i'm not much a fan for business books but there's one called the e-myth i don't know if you ever read that one no it's one of in my opinion the few good ones uh it could be summarized in like a couple pages so basically it's like most people who are uh say like an engineer uh want to go out and do their own thing because they're like oh man i won't have to deal with the bullshit of the company life etc etc and in doing so they don't really realize that like running your own business is mostly not writing code it's like doing sales and all that stuff and the big takeaway is uh you need to spend more time working on your business not in your business and that's what you learn when you start managing people right like then you can abstract it and you can get better at that yeah i think that's honestly what i go through a lot now with youtube is that a lot of the time I'm spending on anything is not necessarily on creating content. It's on essentially management tasks and not the IC work. And I do draw a lot of parallels between making videos and software engineering because to me it all scratches the same itch of just making something, bringing something into existence. My Adobe Premiere setup feels a lot like my Vim setup where i've got like jk you know l or whatever to like move things around um and and yeah uh yeah i i definitely agree with that okay and so what what was the moment was it just like oh okay i can monetize my channel to a certain amount. I can make the jump. Or was there a particular moment that made you want to fully break from Patreon? So I've mentioned before that I'm like a very risk averse person. So it took me a while to think of doing YouTube stuff full time as a clean break. I think I had a bunch of contingency plans in my head of like, well, maybe I'll work part time or maybe I'll do this or maybe I'll do that. And it took a while to say, no, I need to do this clean break thing because otherwise I'm never going to grow and I'm going, it's possible that I don't even invest as much as I can in this creative endeavor because I am afraid I'm trying to like hold on to two things. Um, there wasn't necessarily a threshold that I necessarily hit monetarily. Yeah. It was more that I had spent about a year at that point juggling both. Where in some ways I'm amazed that I was able to do my regular job and also YouTube because I would wake up at 6 a.m. and write or work on a video. And then the benefit of the tech industry is that you could go into work at 10 or even 11 and it's not weird. And so I would try to use that to my advantage. So I would wake up hyper early and then kind of work half. Work two jobs. Yeah, work two jobs, essentially. And I can't do that now, which is maybe a good thing. In my head, even. You can't do it now. So even though it's my only job now doing YouTube stuff, I can't like harness that energy. You mean you got soft? Maybe. It's like different. It's different. You're probably just much healthier. Yeah, I think it's just healthier. Because like the point that I was getting at with that is I hit like a breaking point where I was like, that I was getting at with that is I hit a breaking point where I was like, this is no longer sustainable because I don't see my friends or anything like that. I'm just this working machine. The other part of that was I was also working weekends. A lot of my YouTube stuff is trying to figure things out with what I want to even make rather than making stuff sometimes. I would just spend a lot of time researching stuff or in empty Word documents. It's just like never feeling satisfied with your output is a really dangerous... Interesting. So was there any one particular moment where you're just underwater on everything and it just broke? How did that go? Yeah, I think there was this um towards the end of last year where uh when i started managing i what i kind of made an agreement with myself not to do any ic work and um because i thought that was going to help me like transition better and i was just like doing a lot more coaching and stuff because the benefit of switching into management at a company that I'd already been in IC at is I had a lot of context on stuff. So I was able to use that to not actually have to write the code myself. And then there was a period towards the end of the year where we had switched into doing work that required a lot of backend expertise and our team loadout didn't have people who were like, had that background at the company. Like a lot of people who are willing to learn, which is, which is amazing. But like the, I, what we needed was like a backend tech lead. Um, and that was like a role that I've held before, but we, we can just like grab that person. Like it all takes time. So I also started doing IC work again. And when I was doing IC work and management work and making videos, I was like, I can't keep doing this. This is the worst. So what also happened at the same time was that YouTube started blowing up. And my YouTube had gone from a thing that like, I could just like take a month off if I really needed to, to something where like I had like 300 or 400,000 subscribers, not overnight, but like over a month basically. Which is insane growth. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, I, yeah, we can talk about that. But, um, and I was like, well, there's like an opportunity here. Like what happens if I'm actually able to like put more into this? Because at a certain point I could, I was only making a video every like two weeks or a month, if that. And, and it was like, things were still happening. So I like really wanted to, I didn't want the ship to sail without me capitalizing on a little bit. And I, I still like, I don't, I'm not really a regrets person, but I'm like, Oh yeah, I definitely felt like I left a lot on the table, like in that time, because I couldn't capitalize on the, the moment because I, I think that the growth happens in waves. Well, I mean, based on my limited experience, you get caught in the algorithm for whatever particular reason and it just goes. But then other times it's really slow. You're just plodding along. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's like that's a thing for sure. It's something that I've observed happening to a bunch of other channels where it almost feels like a storm in terms of if you look at the analytics, it's like, oh, you're suddenly gaining thousands of subscribers a day. And then that's not happening for, like, whereas normally maybe you're getting 500 or 1,000 subscribers a day or 200 or something like that. And yeah, that storm passes eventually. And while it's there, I do think that there's ways to capitalize on it. And I was like, okay, I don't know how long this moment's going to last, but, um, maybe, you know, maybe this is something I could do for more of my time. So I started, I started thinking about, I started thinking about it, like having conversations. One, um, you know, one conversation I had was with like, uh, Jack Conti, the CEO of Patreon. He has always been super supportive of me. And so I have an immense gratitude to him because I just remember having 2,000 YouTube subscribers and having a one-on-one with him just about YouTube where I was just like, I don't know. Were they all clued in, everyone at your work? Well, I think people were aware. Me and another coworker had started our channels at the same time. And hers blew up kind of immediately. So I think everyone was kind of aware that a couple of us were doing YouTube stuff. And I remember, yeah, going to Jack and being like, I don't know what's going on. I feel like I'm making these bangers. And it's just not happening. And we made this. He went through this exercise of it um, you know, it's the beginning of the next year. Um, you know, what is the press release? Like last year was your like perfect year. What is the press release for what happened? And it's like, well, I made these videos. I, whatever. It's like, how many subscribers do you have? What, what is your relationship with your fans and going through that exercise was like just may put me at ease about like whether or not i was on like the right track and um and i had a conversation and so like that was just like i was just continuing to chat along and i had a uh i i called jack and and told him that I was thinking about potentially doing YouTube more full-time. He was kind of like, as a creator, you've got to do this. It was more like, as a CEO, I don't want you to leave, but as a creator, you need to do this. You're going to kick yourself if you don't seize this opportunity. But maybe there's something we could work out in the middle and so we like worked on that for a bit and it was like several several months before i event like i eventually i was initially planning to do something more part-time but i eventually decided to um yeah to make the clean break but i tried to have the the the most seamless like transition out where i like stayed on for like i put it essentially i put in my like three months notice rather than like my like two weeks or whatever um to like wrap up projects and finish things up um and then after having those conversations it like just became more and more real i knew i knew that i had saved enough money to give it a period of time. Like if I wanted to spend a year without having to worry about making money from YouTube, I would be able to do that. Cause I saved pretty aggressively after I paid off my student loans for, for something, I don't know what for, right. But it's like for the cap, like personal capital, like investing in yourself. And so I'm i'm like yeah from that it just became like okay this is more and more feasible to take the leap and who knows how long it'll last right i mean it's it's tricky because obviously youtube's fickle um yeah but i think that the relationship between uh creators and entrepreneurs is very similar yeah you just feel like oh shit like now is the time to build this channel. I'm having the early drips of users come in. I have to jump on this right now. There's a clear market opportunity here. Unfortunately, my brain does think about things in those terms often, so I have to pull myself back into just making stuff that I you know want to want to so this is the next thing i wanted to talk about so you mentioned it already like the relationship with fans and it's something that i'm always curious about with the with our channel that i need to do a better job of like talking to the users basically right um but then on the other hand you're like i'm you know i kind of want to make the stuff I want to make. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so how do you balance that? Yeah. Well, it's definitely not easy. And I take a lot from the fact that I just witnessed a lot of user interviews and creator interviews when I was at Patreon and thinking about how random users relate to a product. A lot of people, just humans in general, don't know what they want. And that's dismissive, but I want to bring that back with, we don't know what we want, but at the same time, what we are saying we want does mean something. It does indicate some, maybe it's a problem, like in, in the user experience world, you're trying to like get at the underlying problem that someone's having so you can address that. And that's kind of how I try to take the criticism when I'm thinking about it. Um, I like YouTube comments hurt my feelings sometimes, but, uh, same. Yeah. But I mean, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna lie about that. Um, so I'm not, I'm not perfect at this, but in terms of how I let it inform, inform the content, I do a lot of like reach outs and asking people what they want to see, but I don't take it as like requests or I don't, who do you reach out to all right i'll like i'll like do a poll on like the youtube community tab or i'll ask i'll tweet something or i'll i'll post something on the instagram question and answer thing which it should i wish it was easier to export the answers from that but um and i i use that as like a sense of you know taking the pulse on things but you also have to qualify that with like or couch it in you know this is the five percent of my audience that actually follows me on social media or this is the percentage of people who will actually say something and so you've got to use that as like one data point but then you're also looking at your actual metrics and then you where you want to take things because no one would it's kind of like in the tech world, or I guess in the product world, there's this thought that you can't iterate yourself to a product vision. Yeah, I've heard this before. It's like all these people are just like A-B testing and reaching some local maximum. Exactly. That's exactly how I, this is the one place I think where I think, that's exactly how I think about it, where I'm like, you can find those local extremities, but not know that there's this absolute maximum. And so you've got to be, you still got to have your vision. Um, and yeah. And so like, that's, that's, that's a real thing. So it's like, there's no amount of listening. I listening to people is extremely important, but I also don't know if like, there's no amount of listening to people that ultimately like makes you successful. It's just like a piece. It's like an important piece of the puzzle because you don't want to be out of touch. Like, um, you have to know how your stuff is being received if you are making stuff for people to enjoy. Um, cause I, I, as much as I like the concept of like, I made this thing, I don't care how you feel about it. Usually people are making something to be enjoyed by people or for their message to be received. And you do have to have met, you have to have some idea of whether or not that's happening. Uh, and, and so you can't, you turn into Kanye if you're like, you turn into like 2019 Kanye, if you like, don't really care what people think. And you're just like going off your own ego. Um, so it's a, it's a delicate balance, but I try to, I try to look at everything in like a beautiful soup. Yeah. Was there any point where you realize that like your, cause you haven't put out that many videos. I put out like 70 videos, so it's not that many. Which like for people who don't pay attention to YouTubers, that's nothing. Yeah, not that many which like for people who don't pay attention to youtubers that's nothing yeah yeah exactly it's like yeah no for sure yeah i mean it's do great work no no no no it's true a day for example yeah yeah exactly and it's like uh we'll go ahead with your question well my question was was there any particular learning where things really started to click for you when it really started to grow was it adopting the mentality of going all in was it a certain stylistic change was obviously the tech videos did well for you yeah i think the first thing that i figured out worked were tech videos um and so then my channel my channel became uh me doing stuff that i wanted to do and then when the numbers would start to die down i would like make a tech video and like what annoys me, what bothered me, is that that's maybe the most confident I've ever felt in video ideas and how things will do. Because I made a video called Why You Shouldn't Be a Software Engineer. And I made it in preparation to make a video about me getting braces and talking about the like journey of that because I knew that like that would like pop up the impressions or whatever. And then that video like did so, so well. And it's like something that I spent so little time on. And like that, it's, it like taught me a lot about how like the effort that you put in doesn't, you know, it doesn't mean anything for the quality. It doesn't you know it doesn't mean anything for the quality it doesn't mean anything for how it will be received um and also like yeah you just can't judge i think me as a person and i think a lot of people have like just i'll just talk about myself i have like a completely whacked out like idea of how i value my own my own work and my own output okay and and it's lessons like that there's tons of lessons on my channel of like how i'm completely out of touch with um with that but i was saying something about the tech um video or uh was there a moment that i felt like i figured it out yeah um i i think no, except for the fact that I knew that tech videos did better than non-tech videos. So I would throw tech videos in there to tentpole the other content while I was continuing to experience. But it's a weird strategy. Because now if you look at your videos, there are some tech videos still, but the lion's share of them are not. And not that many channels do are not and not that many channels do that and not that many companies think like okay we're going to have this product for this audience and then this product for this audience and the overlap might not be the same. Yeah in my mind there was a thread that connected all of that stuff and I still think there is a thread that connects all that stuff. Yeah. Um, and I, I still think there is a thread that connects all that stuff, but the, a lot of, a lot of what dictates what does well and what doesn't is like the click through rate on the, the thing. And, and if, if you, if you see a through line between, you know, uh, I made a video called the worst software engineering advice I've ever seen. And it was like my first foray into the commentary genre, because I was really enjoying watching those videos on YouTube. And the reason I was the reason I made that video is because I was like, Okay, I know that people like tech videos from this channel and I really like commentary videos. So let me make a tech commentary video that I can then pivot hopefully into just commentary videos. Because I wanted to get people used to that format for me so that then I could remove the tech. But what I misjudged at the time, I don't think it ended up mattering a great deal, but what I misjudged at the time. I don't think it ended up mattering a great deal, but what I misjudged at the time was that the click-through on, even though at the end of that software engineering advice video, I talked about this channel called 5-Minute Crafts. When I actually made a video about 5-Minute Crafts, no one clicked on it. That's fine, but it's an indication of audience expectation and like the story that you're telling to the audience and the value that that audience gets from your channel. So I'm, I found out that there were just a lot of people, the value that they got from my channel was strongly correlated with like me talking about tech because I wanted to get this information from tech. And so if that value prop wasn't immediately obvious, then they wouldn't click on it. And so that was the takeaway from that moment. Yeah, it's tricky, man. There are so many weird things that you can do. Just depending on title. And at the end of the day, you just keep pushing it out. Yeah, for sure for sure yeah i guess the um the point of of all of that and of learning all that was to like develop a i did have a content strategy of like um how am i i realized that that, you know, you can't, you're not really, um, what's the phrase? Like you can't choose what you're famous for or whatever. Um, I, I made some tech videos cause they were getting the most traction, but then it like kind of got away from me. And even though my channel wasn't a tech channel to me, it was like a tech channel to other people. Totally. And it's like, I've like run the numbers. At like no point did my channel have more than 50% tech videos. But because in my head, I was like, that was never the thing. But and now to this day of my 70 videos, like 20 of them are tech videos. But the thing that resonated with the first like bigger audience was that and so that's what it was to them and so when i made stuff outside of that i had to have like stronger hypotheses about the other people that i was reaching and like how people were converting across um across the different styles of video i mean i think this is like why i mean in many ways because humans are so good at rationalizing things, they just say, okay, fine. You see it happen with products all the time. And like, in many ways it's great, right? Provided it's not harming the world in a massive way. But I think it's hard when you, when you view yourself maybe more in like the artist category. Sure. Yeah. I don't know. I think, yeah. I guess, you know, the big, a big moment where I was like, oh no, this is not what I'm going for. For me on my channel, was it like on one of my videos, they were saying like, oh, great information, but I really wish like it didn't have all the comedy sketches in it or whatever. Like, couldn't you just get straight to the information? This is cool, but it's a little too funny. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You come to the wrong place. I'm actually only talking about that information so that someone will watch me try to be funny. It's my main critique of a lot of tech, whatever sub-communities where it's all upvote-based. There's not a lot of joy. And I think it pushes people out. Yeah, and I think that tech is something that I still want to talk about, but I don't have a lot of energy for it in this mo in this current like moment and I haven't figured out what I want my voice to be there yeah because I what I I eventually made a second channel for tech stuff and I just haven't really posted on it but like my first video that I posted did well so I could tell that like the the audience is still running. I thought they were good. I watched this. Yeah. And then you did the AMA, which is funny. Oh, yeah. And I accidentally made that live video public, and I have an edited version of that for an actual post. But then I was just like, all right, maybe we'll just leave. But yeah, it's like I want to get back to that but I just like haven't I don't have my shit together is essentially the and it's also fair when you're like hey listen I've expressed these certain ideas like I know that many people might want to hear the same thing over and over again but like that's not really where I'm going yeah yeah and I think that I'm sure I can do like some sort of advice or Q&A type thing, but it's just not where my attention is right now. And so a lot of what I talk about is a function of where my attention is. Which is great. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you did get a bunch of questions, some tech-related from Twitter. Oh, yeah, and that's totally chill. So one question I really liked was from Nathan Alibach. So was from Nathan Alibach. Do you know who this is? No. He runs the Steakums Twitter account. Oh, that's hilarious. Is the Steakums Twitter account good? It's a great example of what brand Twitter has turned into. It's kind of like the anti-brand Twitter. Oh, it's like the Moon Pie Twitter? Exactly. It's great. I made a couple of videos about brand Twitter, and I met Nathan through that on the internet, Exactly. Yeah. It's great. I, I, we've, I made a couple of videos about brand Twitter and like, I met Nathan through that on the internet and like, we've kept in touch. Uh, and I, yeah. Great guy. That's cool. Okay. Yeah. I, I, I'm very much digging that genre. Yeah. So, uh, his question is our content creators responsible in any capacity for their audiences? Uh, I think there's a really good question. And I think the answer is absolutely. Um, yes, in a, in a big capacity, maybe not 100% responsible. Um, because like if someone who, like you get this with PewDiePie, like, uh, he's so big. Yeah. And it's like, if anyone does anything bad in his name, it's like, what is his responsibility to that? And I think that he does have, you know, a responsibility, um, because I think that there's a power, you know, he's not solely responsible for these, for these people because they're free thinking individuals. Uh, but when you have that power dynamic, um, and yeah, when you, when you, when you have that power dynamic, there are going to be people who are doing things for you or to get your attention or to benefit from your brand or your name or whatever. And I think the best I can do in that situation is to try to call out when things don't seem like right to me like if some if someone if someone like says something mean in my name or something i i feel a responsibility to call that out and and to try to like look within myself as to like why a person who acted that way uh is enjoys my my content you know what i mean um and then and then make you know whatever changes are necessary i've been lucky enough that like i haven't run into this but um i think you see it a lot with these like big influencers so the one that comes to mind always is like rogan yeah because he's just like at this point or pewdiepie right like they're making something and because of their actions like maybe their action in a certain interview was like not preparing a lot yeah so therefore you're like somewhat responsible for misinforming millions of people right right oh yeah i i mean uh i think that i think that creators should be on the whole like we should all feel a great sense of responsibility. That's really what I'm trying to get at. I don't want to call out anyone in particular, but I just think that when you have a platform and you have influence over people, it's not fair that you get all the benefits of that without any of the consequences. And so with influencer marketing, I think a thing I have a problem with is when people are selling products that could be actively harmful to their audiences to make a quick buck. I get some brand offers now where I get stressed out over trying to look into whether or not the company is something that I could support. And I think that that's right. I think that we should feel a little more pain there and not just like, oh yeah, sign the check, pay me a bunch of money. Well, I mean, even more abstractly, you're kind of in the business of consuming people's attention. Yeah. It's a little complicated there yeah absolutely and i feel like um there is a trust that is built between the audience and the creator like i want people to know that i am thinking about like what i'm saying how i'm saying it what i'm promoting yeah um the type of behavior like from in terms of products or behaviors that that saying it, what I'm promoting, the type of behavior, like from in terms of product or behaviors that I'm promoting, what I'm calling out. Like, I think that like a lot of times, like what I choose to talk about specifically is the result of a lot of thought and like, how is this going to be perceived? Am I punching down? Is this like, you know, I think it's a thing that yeah we should all be when we're using when we're when we're responsible for people's attention we should you know not take that lightly yeah yeah absolutely and it can be deceptive because you see your thumbnails and you're like ah this is just some like YouTubey stuff but it's a little more thoughtful than that kind of the game that you play. Um, yeah, we haven't gone down that path yet. Yeah. I mean, it's tricky. I mean, for me, the most is that, uh, you know, I've, I've, I've made videos that are called like, this is the worst channel on YouTube where that's like hyperbole for sure. But at the same time, like if you come in for that and then you stick around and then you see like the actual like negative as your titles would make you seem that's actually fascinating to me as well uh i i and i've been experimenting with how to you know like mr are you familiar with mr beast no i don't know so he's a he's a huge youtuber one of the biggest youtubers right now who's who's new a lot of what he does is like you know gives away a bunch of money to like a homeless person or like he like puts 10 100 million Orbeez in his friend's backyard. These giant stunts that involve a lot of money. Casey Neistat just had him on doing an interview. It's maybe a good intro to him, but he's given away, he's got 18 million subscribers now. He's given away $2 million or something. Dude. And it's fascinating, because one of the things that he says is that a lot of people think you need negativity for clicks, but you can also do clickbait with positivity. I'm still trying to figure out how to like, because I think I'm a pretty optimistic, positive, and kind of cheesy person. And I'm trying to figure out how to translate that, but I haven't quite gotten there yet. Yeah, I mean, because that angle can also be off-putting. Because you're like, oh, Jarvis haven't quite gotten there yet. Yeah. I mean that, cause like that angle can also be off putting cause like, Oh, Jarvis is just like virtue signaling here. Like look how good I am. Right. Right. And it's like, it's like, no, no, no. It's like, let's just be like, let's just try to be a real here. And, um, negativity is just like an attention grabber, but a lot of people do when you frame something like that do walk away um with with a negative perception or or or the wrong perception and you know going back to the responsibility point there have been situations where people are like oh we have to do this to like get back at this person and i was like no like that's not how we that's not how we operate here you know um and i try to like whenever i've seen that happen which hasn, which hasn't been much, I try to say no. We use our words and we use well-thought-out criticism as our ammunition because I don't want people to go harass anybody. Yeah, that's a great point. All right, Taylor asks, in what way do you think content creation can benefit one's career in the tech industry like i i find a lot of similarities between creating content and making software like you're you're drawing you've got point a and point b you want to like get to this end via via this means and you need to swap out the means of a video or a piece of software. So exercising that in different mediums is ultimately going to help you think about ways to solve problems. You'll apply something that you learned. I apply a lot of what I've learned in software and making videos. Uh, and, uh, in terms of like how, I don't know, you navigate your timeline or, or, or I don't know, even other, other stuff. But, um, there's another way of like that. It helps. I think where you are able to build a personal brand. But that's tricky though, right? I think the question is, you can cut it multiple ways, but that visibility is both great until it isn't for certain people. And do you even want this content to be related at all to tech? I think that's another thing to be... Yeah, because I see people asking about it all the time. And you're like, well, maybe I don't want to talk about my work-related stuff all the time. And so if your videos were just people smashing pies in your face, that's awesome. But that's not necessarily beneficial or detrimental. Yeah, but another way that it could help if you want to make content that is around tech, then if you're teaching something, obviously you'll understand things better when you have to frame it towards an audience that doesn't understand the thing. That was something that I learned from being a teaching assistant, where I was like, let's talk about depth-first search or whatever. Let's talk about Dijkstra's algorithm. And then working from completely no understanding to understanding, you get a much better understanding of it yourself, of the ins and outs. Well, that's what really drew me into your software videos because i was like oh he's trying to help people out and not i mean like obviously you are advancing your you know personal brand or whatever but like for the most part it's about like making something that's fun and helping people out yeah and i think like to this question like you know, content creation benefiting your career, I think most people would read that and think, oh, I should write medium posts like everyone else. And that's actually not where the gains come from. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's funny. I never even thought about my tech videos as benefiting my tech career because it really was just coming from a point of, I want to make some YouTube videos. I want to cut my teeth in this process. And also, here's some information that I just have. Here's stuff I know about. Here it is to you. And also, I think that when I see people struggling with stuff that I've struggled with, or I think I've gone through and realized like it wasn't as big of a deal as i thought then i'm like oh my god let me save you some anxiety yeah yeah i'm so pro like accessible role models and that's why i like very much dig these channels yeah yeah yeah um that's awesome all right so i want to talk about a couple more things so one thing i want to talk about is your podcast that you started when you were a teenager. Oh, yeah. That's a thing. I haven't listened to that. Is that still online somewhere? Kind of. I've put snippets in videos. I saw those. But yeah, other than that, not so much. Okay. Because that's like OG podcasting. Yeah, that was like 2006, 2007. My co-host of that podcast, we are actually starting a new podcast. Our first episode is a little bit talking about how, like has clips from that podcast in it. Yeah, I got into podcasts from the same thing that I got into software from. And whenever I get into something, I'm like, oh, I want to do that. That's usually what it is. And so it's like, whenever I find something that's super cool, I'm like, oh, I want to do that. That's usually what it is. Whenever I find something that's super cool, I'm like, oh, I like that. I want to do that. Anything I've ever learned well has been because I want to make the thing. Anything I've learned poorly has been because you need to learn this. Never. I'm finding that so much now where I'm wanting to learn about so many things that I should have learned in high school or whatever about history or something. Where I'm like, oh, it just wasn't the right medium or I wasn't super jazzed. I almost feel like my brain has changed and how I want to absorb information. But maybe it's just that the stakes of everything have changed and I'm less stressed out about getting the grade and more interested in just like learning things yes learning for fun also not having to learn seven things at once seven different topics which just seems like broken as well that's yeah that's a good point uh but yeah how old are you now i'm 26 26 about to turn 27 so 27 year old could crush high school. Yeah. Let me put me back in coach. Also like you do, you do comedy stuff too. So someone asked, octopus blues asks, what lessons did improv teach you? And what would you recommend? Would you recommend other people do it? I recommend taking an, like one improv class to everybody. Improv taught me a lot about team dynamics. I performed with a team in San Francisco for about a year doing a weekly show or biweekly or whatever. And just the relationships that you build and the improv is all about not being the star of the show and about setting up your teammates for slam dunks. I took a lot from that with management where it's like, how do I make sure that my team is able to set them up so that they look really awesome? There's a lot of satisfaction in that. Getting somebody a promotion or whatever, really awesome. And there's like a lot of satisfaction in that, like getting somebody a promotion or whatever. It feels a lot like, you know, calling back to somebody's joke from like the first beat or whatever and allowing them to like knock it down. And improv helps you a lot with like getting out of your comfort zone and feeling accepted accepted knowing that what you're afraid of typically is not rational even even though like you you feel it so it's like very real but when you when you put it out there you realize that people are accepting like improv is a very accepting place where you can just like be like i don't know if this is gonna land but i'm just gonna like say it and people are they don't ridicule you for it. So it's a very safe environment to just feel more comfortable. Yeah, there's a lot, I think, that can be learned from improv. I think it gets thrown under the bus in many ways as kind of cheeseball. It's a great punchline, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But no, your point's great. Just take one there's no downside to taking one class yeah and there's even places where you can do like a drop-in class like for you know a saturday afternoon in in games in san francisco does that um it's like 15 bucks three hour class get in get out meet a bunch of new people it's it's it's cool um yeah cool all right so my last question is uh predictions okay what is the predictions of both like youtube creators and then content creation in general in the next handful of years oh interesting so wait prediction of like where the like where is the industry going like what things are gonna get traction obviously you can't know yeah no no uh i think um i think that tiktok is going to produce some people uh some more tradition quote unquote traditional creators i think there are people who are doing really interesting stuff on that platform but there's a lot of noise or i feel mean even calling it noise but there's a lot of noise, or I feel mean even calling it noise, but there's a lot of what people make fun of TikTok for also there. So I think that that will be the next thing where people are like, oh, YouTuber is a word that is used to describe Logan Paul's of the world, where it has a negative connotation and I hope that that will um change in the future I hope that YouTube becomes a more supportive place for creators of all kinds where they're not like constantly fighting against monetization um instability um because it's a very as it stands today um it can be a very unstable thing for a lot of people. And oftentimes not even related to the algorithmic changes, but more like how the loop between advertisers and YouTube and stuff work. I think, I hope that there's just a, like traditional media in a lot of ways to me feels like it has, it is the way it is because of gatekeepers. Like it's kind of whenever there's like an incumbent and then somebody new coming in, there's all these, like there's all this energy towards keeping the incumbent in, in power. And I i that's what i feel with that's kind of how i feel about about youtube and traditional media like it's interesting to me that like liza koshi is doing um you know double there on nickelodeon because it's like liza koshi has like the biggest audience and could be reaching the most people but now now here's the thing though uh from a personal standpoint like i totally get like wanting to be challenged and wanting to try new things and like there's like so i like i'm actually happy for her and like whatever she wants to do in her career but when people value when people have like a hierarchy of like oh this is just better than this yeah that's like tv was in that situation with movies, or like TV and movies were in that exact same situation. So this always- And then it flipped. Yeah, and then it flipped. And so this always seems to be happening, like repeating itself. So I hope that there's less of that and more people jumping. You see like a lot of traditional media people going on YouTube. I hope to see more of that. I know that in a respectful way to the platform, because I know that people are like, ugh, Will Smith or whatever. But I think that Will Smith is an interesting YouTube entity. I think it's hilarious. Yeah, I think that I want more people who are investing in their own thing rather than just straight up television being dominating on YouTube. Investing in the platform itself I think is a valuable thing for all creators. I could be wrong about that but um but blur blurring those lines make making sure that there's still avenues for for up-and-coming people is something something that I want to see uh I want to see something done about uh people who have an unlimited amount of resources to pump into YouTube like that kind of it seems like you could just buy success on YouTube if you're a company that wants to just copy something that has some sort of popularity and then you just take all the soul out of it. Yes and no. Because then you get the problem of finding the right host. And there's something about, you talk about your tech videos too, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. The through line is you. And the same thing with Marques. The through line is him. It's like he can go review paperclips and people are into it. Right, right. No, that's totally true. And I think that that is a great YouTube, well, I think that's a thing across the internet, but that's a great thing that YouTube does have. But when I look at content farms, it's more where I feel less good about it. These videos where CGP Grey or somebody will make a video that's an interesting essay on a topic and then some channel will remake that video, but worse, but just to capitalize on all of it. But they can do that daily or three times a day and make a bunch of money off of it because it's a business where they just pump in. It's an investment almost. So that's a bummer. It just adds a bunch of noise to YouTube that is not something you can actually prevent. is not gonna it's not something you can actually prevent but i would uh yeah i don't know i would just like to see less of that is more yeah obviously i would like to see less things that are obviously content farms like wildly successful and like dominating like youtube but we'll see yeah i agree all right man thanks for coming in thanks for having me