 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Hey, so good morning to day three of Startup Investor School. We are going to get underway. So just a reminder, if you want to send in questions to, there's going to be a few Q&As today. If you want to send them in, as always, you can send them on Twitter to hashtag YCSIS. And for those of you on the Slack channel, you can also Slack them on the Slack questions channel. And we will sometimes answer them. I also will commit to going through all the questions and putting together answers and putting that document up on the investor.startupschool.org, which is, again, the streaming site. So just yesterday, the main topic, as you could tell, was really focused on the hardest thing about investing, I think, which is how do you decide to invest? How do you go about making decisions so we heard from Dalton who talked about founder meetings talked about process how you should get organized and have a consistent process that makes sense to you and and helps you organize the deal flow the set of founders you meet and and helps you think clearly about the set of decisions you're going to make. And then you just merely have to meet the founders and decide if you love them, their business, their product, and believe that it has the potential to grow and scale and thrive. Then PB came and gave his always PB-like perspective on things. There are a few things to note, right? PB said, as he pointed out, there is not a great investor in the world who has not made great mistakes. And he's had some epic ones, and it's kind of cool that he's comfortable enough to share those. Part of the reason between us and the world that he's comfortable in sharing those is he's had plenty of great successes as well, as I pointed out. He's a fantastic investor. But it's hard., it's hard. And it's hard. And you don't know because some guy named Brian Chesky sends you an email. You don't know if that's the one you should have responded to. You only know that in retrospect years later. But I thought that was some incredible – every time PB speaks, I derive a little bit of wisdom for that. One thing he said that I loved was that you should look for ideas that would seem stupid inside a big company. I've actually been in a big company and had stupid ideas. Mostly they were just stupid. I don't think they were. And of course, that's the hard part is that some of the ideas really are stupid. But some of the great ideas almost have to be stupid. That was his point, right? Because if not, they do have resources and skills and talent. So you need the ideas that are stupid, look bad, but are good, and that big companies won't naturally do. Don't restrict yourself to what you know. Probably a bad idea. You might miss the next big crypto company if you're not a big crypto person and you have the opportunity to invest in them. He was very Yoda-like in saying, do or do not. Do or not do? I don't know. Make your decisions. And he put it on a whole bunch of founders' traits in a slightly different way that I thought were pretty cool, from moving fast to accomplishing a lot with just a little to finding someone who's a talent magnet. By the way, that's as an aside. If you're not evaluating that when you talk to founders, you're making a mistake because if you think about it, every giant company is built with an incredible team. And if you don't believe that the founder you're talking to can recruit and build this team of people who could have thousands of people underneath them, then the chance of them building a big company is that much smaller. And lastly, we heard from Michael and his sort of personal advice on investing and how to deal with YC Demo Day. Can I have a show of hands? How many of you plan to attend the virtual Demo Day and check it out? Good. His advice is very good for Demo Day. to attend the virtual demo day and check it out, good. His advice is very good for demo day. And feel free to approach us at the breaks and ask for more advice on demo day. Reminder, tomorrow we heard you asking for more networking. Some of you asked for beer and wine apparently because we're having beer and wine. And networking after the session tomorrow should end around 1230, and we'll go to around 2 p.m. So there'll be beer, wine, and pizza. I don't know if people asked for pizza, but we're giving you pizza. And I hope that should be a lot of fun. Today is a little different, a little change of pace. We're going to have investors who are not YC folks, who have invested often in YC companies, but who are investors on their own, on their own right. All of them have done angel investing. Some of them have done professional VC investing as well. The way this is going to work is that we have two sets of two investors. So the two folks are going to speak, and then we're going to do a Q&A. So if you would hold your questions until the very end when the three of us will get up on stage, and we'll take questions until the end of the session, and then we'll do the same after 11 o'clock. The first person I'm going to introduce is an amazing investor. His name is Elad Gill. He's also an amazing entrepreneur. He's founded Color Genomics and Mixture Labs and has an incredibly broad set of knowledge in software, in biotechnology, and probably everything. So he's an extremely smart person and a great investor, and he has said something that I agree with completely, is that startups are not about working on a great idea. They are the relentless pursuit of doing stuff for customers. So please welcome Elad Gil. Thank you. So thanks to Jeff and Y Combinator for inviting me and thanks you all for attending. So Jeff asked me to talk about finding billion dollar companies. And I also wanted to talk a little bit about helping companies as well, because I think ultimately your primary role as an angel is to help the companies you're involved with versus just giving them money. So I think that's very important. Jeff mentioned my background as As an investor, here are 10 billion dollar companies that I've invested in. Airbnb, Stripe, Square, etc. at different stages. Many people, and I'm sure during the last few days, people have been talking about what's the most important determinant for startup success at the angel level. And ultimately people tend to say it's the team or it's the market or it's luck or maybe it's the number of hipsters that you have working for you you know in my case I'm a very strong believer in markets first and then teams and I think that differs from a lot of angels as well as how a lot of other investors think about the world so I'm a very market driven investor and indeed my ranking would be markets number one, markets number two, team excellence is number three. And then number four is related to team. If somebody gave you a call, you know, at midnight on a Friday, would you actually want to pick up the phone and talk to them? And so sort of a no jerks kind of policy. And this has actually happened to me. The founders of Stripe, for example, called me at 10 o'clock at night on a Saturday asking if I could meet them for a glass of wine to talk about the first acquisition that they were thinking about doing. And so I, you know, jumped in an Uber and headed over. So I think you really want to view this both as a service model in terms of you're helping the founders that you're involved with, but also people that you'd want to work with for a long time. Because when you invest in something, if it actually does well, you may be involved with that company for seven, eight, nine, ten years. So it is a very long-term relationship that you're forming, and at least personally, I only want to work with good people. Andy Ratcliffe, one of the founders of Benchmark, I think phrased what I believe is a very good view of startups as follows. Great team, terrible market, market wins. So it doesn't matter how good the team is, the market really dominates. Great market, terrible team, the market wins. There's examples of terrible teams that do amazingly well because the market really pulls the product. The market is driving sales even if the team is semi-incompetent. And then great market, great team, something magical happens. And that's when you get a Google or a Facebook or one of these outside successes. And so I really follow this as an investor. And I wanted to walk through five signs of a great market early on when you're investing in a company, because this is really about how can you tell what's going to be a billion-dollar company. The first one is early compounding, even off of a small base. And so often if you meet a company and they're doing $10,000 a year in ARR or $100,000 a year in ARR, you think, my gosh, how will this ever be big? It's so little revenue. But if they're growing 15% a month, 20% a month, if you compound that out even just for four years in this case, 100K ARR turns into $630 million in annual recurring revenue. And the growth rate really matters. Once you're down to 13%, it's $35 million. And so that's the difference between a company that's on track to be a $10 billion company and a company that's probably somewhere in the low hundreds of millions in terms of valuation at that stage. So it makes a huge difference in terms of that compounding rate. And sometimes you actually get very strong early signals of this. Airbnb at the Series A was sort of growing rapidly. Checkr would be another example of a company that's a more recent one that always had a nice compounding growth rate. The second sign of a great market is people actually paying you for your product and potentially paying you more than other companies in the market. So the typical thing that a founder will do, especially if they're a more technical founder, is they'll say, the way I'm going to win is by making this cheaper than anybody else, which actually tends to be a really bad strategy unless you're truly just going for scale. And sometimes those scale businesses work. Amazon is the canonical example of that. But in general, if you can command a premium and you have large customers paying you early, it's a great sign that you have product market fit and that people really want your product. Because when you talk to customers, they'll always say, oh, yeah, that sounds really interesting. Oh, yeah, that sounds super fascinating. Tell me more. But then they never buy anything. And so in the case of PagerDuty, when I invested, at the seed, they had Google. I think they actually had Apple as a customer, this was seven, eight years ago. They had Heroku, they had a lot of larger companies as paying customers. And it was an interesting dynamic because that was a company that for the first month or two of fundraising, nobody was funding it. And I committed quite early and then maybe three months in, suddenly it became a really hot company and everybody wanted to invest. And at least to me, this was a very clear signal. They were compounding like the prior point, and they had some really marquee brand name customers. And for some reason, people just miss that. So I think sometimes there is a sort of hurt instinct that gets lost. Next is something that your company would actually use or that you would actually use. And so all these companies here that I invested in, in many cases were on the left-hand side at least companies that my first startup, Mixture Labs, would have used. So we would have used Stripe for payments because the payment solutions were crappy. We would have used Gusto for payroll because we were using ADP and Paychex and we kept switching because it was a bad experience. We would have used Zenefits for health insurance, Optimizely for A-B testing, PagerDuty for PagerDuty. And so it was really by starting a company that it was clear that these were needed products and these were things that it made sense to get involved with. The fourth reason is really around a why now statement as well as what's the real basis for competition in a market. And so I think people often misunderstand markets and they either think that they're overly crowded. So, for example, when Dropbox and Box got going, there were a dozen different cloud storage providers, and it looked like potentially a crowded market. Same with Google with Search. And same actually with social networking. I remember around 2010, everybody saying that the era of social was over and all the companies that will ever exist will exist, you know it's sort of game over but I think what they failed to see was the rise of mobile which really led to Instagram and Snap as well as sort of the Chinese equivalents of many of these companies getting up and running and so there's a whole wave of really interesting investable companies that a lot of people missed because they just weren't looking at social products anymore and so the real real question is, when is a market truly over or really crowded? And when is there still big gaps? And that's a key piece of analysis I think that's worth doing. The last thing is really around moats. And if you want to have a long, sustained company, then you need to have it be defensible. And I think there's real moats and fake moats. You know network effects are real moats in most cases. Every once in a while they're a fake moat because MySpace doesn't exist anymore so in hindsight their poor execution meant that the network effect unraveled just as quick as it sort of spiraled up. People often talk about data moats. There are very, very few companies that actually have data moats, and so I think that's often a red herring. I think maybe in genomics right now, there may be interesting data moats to be formed, but in most industries, data moats don't really exist. And so I think some of the signs of a company having a moat is number one, what's its long-term margin? And so really thinking about the underlying fundamentals of the business, like how much money they're making per customer, per dollar from a customer. And again, there's Amazon or scale-centric models where that doesn't matter as much, but then that has to be an explicit part of their model. The compounding scale we talked about, revenue renewal or recurrence is really important. Having a customer paying you over and over on a long-term contract is much more valuable than a churn and burn customer. So Internet of Things, for example, traditionally have been bad investments for startups, great investments for big companies because, you know, if you have a smart light bulb company, you buy a light bulb once, and especially if it lasts 20 years as an LED light bulb, you're never going to go back to that customer again unless you try to cross-sell something. So you really have to be thoughtful about that recurrence. And again, there's business models where potentially you're generating data or other things, so the occurrence matters less. And then customer mix. How dependent are you on one or two customers? If you have very high customer dependence, they have enormous bargaining power, which means that you're kind of screwed from a negotiation perspective. And so a lot of people who sell into pharma, for example, may only have 10 real customers. That makes it much harder than if you have a longer tail. But those types of businesses can work very well. If you actually look at this long-term margin compounding scale and customer mix, I mean, that's basically Google, for example. They don't have the revenue recurrence in terms of locked-in contracts, but they do have revenue recurrence from the perspective of the advertisers keep wanting to reach this unique user base. So that was sort of the main market signals that at least for me have sort of helped me in terms of choosing some of these companies. On the team side, which I view as sort of the next most important thing, there's really four things that at least stand out in my mind. One is, do they actually have a product at the time that they're pitching? And product may mean a really crappy alpha that kind of breaks, but at least they built something when they're talking to you. Some of the worst investments I've made were two really smart people with a PowerPoint deck. And I was like, oh, my gosh, their vision and they're so articulate and they're so smart and it never tends to work. Unless there's a reason that they couldn't have built something. And that could be maybe there's a regulatory constraint. Maybe they need a partnership with a bank or other things like that. And so it takes a year or two to actually build something. But even then, most smart people, I think, have at least some sort of demo. Or I should say not smart, people who get shit done, which is different from being smart. Second is fast learning. So how quickly do they ramp? Ben, the CEO of Pinterest, is a great example of this, where every time you talk to him, six months later, he'll have internalized everything and have learned way more than you ever knew about a topic. And so that's an example of somebody who's constantly scaling. Or Brian Chesky is sort of notorious for having very rapidly ramped in the role of CEO. Third is good at selling, which Jeff mentioned, because ultimately founders are going to need to sell their team to join them. They're going to need to sell investors to give them money, and they're going to need to sell customers to pay them. And so you actually have to be very good at convincing. Now, there's different forms of convincing. You know, Vitalik, who runs Ethereum, you know, he has the ability to create a little bit of a culture around himself in terms of the people who work with him and sort of the broader crypto community. And that's a different form of selling than somebody who is, you know, the slick BD person. But each form of selling can actually work as long as there's good product, founder market fit. If the founder is working in the right market or on the right product, then their form of selling is what's important. So you can't do a one-size-fits-all model for this. And then lastly, of course, people who's determined. And Doug Leone, one of the sort of old-school major partners at Sequoia, puts this extremely succinctly. Whose voice is driving you? You know, that was a question that he used to ask in some contexts. When you're sitting there and you're working at 2 in the morning, whose voice are you hearing in your head? Is it your mother? Is it your uncle? Is it your brother or sister? Who's the person who's driving you to go forward? And I think that's a really important question or a really important part of founder psychology to understand. There's a lot of false signals and mistakes. So I think one of the number one false signals is other investors. So just because a lot of people are holding a purple mustache doesn't mean that you should too. So I think a lot of people sort of follow investors in a crowd or they say, oh, benchmark isn't investing, therefore I must. But the greatest investors make all sorts of mistakes. So I think doing your own diligence and actually being thoughtful is a worthwhile endeavor. Some of the mistakes I made, so Jeff asked me to sort of touch on these. One of the biggest mistakes I made from a passing perspective is I passed on Lyft for their Series C, which was a $90 million valuation. And I think they're now in the like $9 billion raise range. So I missed 100x or maybe post dilution at 50x. Which every night when I go to sleep I'm like crying. I'm like how could I do this? And I think in that case I worried both about valuation at the time. They were still doing a ride sharing service. Excuse me. They were still doing a corporate ride sharing service versus what they're doing now is more the transition from Zimride over. But second, I also thought it was going to be a winner take all market and I thought Uber was just going to win everything. In hindsight, not every market is a winner take all market. There's actually oligopoly markets in all sorts of industries. I think that was a misunderstanding of market structure by me. I think most angels actually care too little about valuation. So often often if you actually look at the return, say you do ten investments and I'm making up a number just to make it a round number, a hundred thousand each, and nine of them go under and one works and that one ends up at a two hundred million dollar exit valuation. If you invest it at five versus twenty million, it's the difference between breaking even and making 3x on your money. And so it's a really big difference just for that one investment. So valuation does matter. It isn't the single most important determinant, but I think you should actually keep it in mind. And I would be thoughtful about advice that says, oh, don't worry about valuation. It's just about the founders. That's actually false. Second is imagining myself or yourself as the founder. So Joe Kraus, who started Excite, which is one of the sort of monster companies of the 90s and who eventually moved on to Google Ventures, said that his biggest mistake as an angel was putting himself in the shoes of the founder and imagining what he would have done with the business instead of what the founder is actually going to do. So I think projecting yourself into that situation is the wrong thing to do. You should be asking, what is this founding team actually going to go and do? Because often they're going to do something radically different from what you're going to do, if you were in their shoes. I think this is an issue more for operators than for anybody else. And then finally, I used to think that having a bad team is a bad signal. And by bad team, I mean you worked with a person before, in the context of their role they were bad. There's an example of a company that I actually didn't invest in because I worked with the founders at Twitter and the person was always in the hallway, they were kind of schmoozing, they were never really getting anything done. I was like, oh my gosh, terrible founder. And then they've started one of the most successful post-Twitter companies and I had dinner with them and I asked them in a polite way, what happened? How did you go and do this amazing thing? And his response was, I finally feel like my ass is on the line. So I think context matters, but I never would have guessed that that transformation would have happened. So I think ultimately, and I know other people too, I know somebody who passed on what's now a multi-billion dollar company at the seed stage because one of the three founders worked for him and he felt that founder was bad, not too smart, not very hardworking, et cetera. It turned out that their co-founder, though, was exceptional. And that person was a CEO. And so it's really interesting to ask what team signals really exist. I think a great team is a very positive signal. I think a bad team, depending on context, may actually be a neutral signal. So I was quickly going to run through how to help, since, again, I think your number one job as an investor is actually to help the companies that you're involved with. And I think there's big differences between helping early versus late. So the left-hand side, the egg, to me, represents an early-stage startup. When all is said and done, early-stage startups aren't't that complicated and they have a very simple surface area. They have to raise money, they have to hire people, and they have to get product market fit and they have to not run out of money or blow up. That's basically all an early stage startup has to do and product market fit is the only thing that matters really. The right hand side is what a late stage company is like. There's tons of people running around, there's a lot of chaos, there's a lot of surface area, there's a lot of things you need to do, and so the way that you help those sorts of companies is radically different. And most angels, I don't think, can do both. In terms of helping early, I mentioned the two biggest reasons that companies tend to fail is they run out of money, which is really a proxy for no product market fit or bad execution, or the team blows up. Every once in a while, you you have a competitive situation where an incumbent crushes the company. That's pretty rare, but it does happen. The ways to help early then map against those areas of either blow-ups or running out of money, and that really comes down to hiring, firing, helping with culture, helping with fundraisers, helping with customers' distribution, and if things don't work out, or alternatively, if they're working really well, but a company's willing to pay up up then the actual exit for the company. I think one under discussed part of helping out founders is actually the psychology of founding. Like being a founder is actually a pretty lonely role and it's long hours and it's stressful for yourself and for your family life and everything else and so I think a lot of time as an investor may actually end up going to support some of the founders that you work with. On the late side, it's the same types of issues, but at a very different scale and with very different insights. So, for example, on the people side, it's much more around exec hiring and management. How do you hire a CFO for the first time? How do you hire a GC? How should you run your executive team meeting? How do you do a reorg? How do you do a reorg? How do you think about board meetings? You start getting into late stage financings and tender offers and secondaries. You start thinking about buying others. How do you actually make an acquisition for the first time? So there's all sorts of very operationally intensive issues that if you have that background, is extraordinarily valuable for a founder. So for those of you in the audience who've been hardcore operators, founders really value that advice, especially as they start scaling, because very few companies have gone through hyper growth and have had to deal with all these things. And then lastly, again, there's different types of founder psychology that tend to kick in. Everything from my COO is dramatically more experienced than me. How do I actually manage them? I think they're smarter than me. actually manage them, I think they're smarter than me, to, you know, I'm having issues with my board, or I'm feeling like I'm not doing enough, or I'm feeling like I've been working nonstop for seven years, how do I take a break, all these things that are ultimately issues of more psychology than anything else. I think the sort of tactical tips to helping is number one, startup best practice is to send out updates. So hopefully many, if not all, of the companies you're involved with are sending out some sort of semi-regular updates. Sometimes they get too busy to do that, and that's totally understandable. But first is reply to them. Even if it's just like a congratulations, nice job, I think it's good to sort of keep in touch and keep top of mind. Second, reach out to help. It's surprising how few angels, once they write a check, don't actually ever follow up and ask, can they help with anything? Or don't follow up on any of the asks in the investor update. Third is follow up quickly. So if you can get a reply, just get a reply out fast. And then finally, just keeping founder and company interests above your own. And one of the topics that Jeff asked me to quickly touch on is how do you see investors acting badly and then how do you see founders acting badly? And so on the angel acting badly side, I think the worst thing I've seen is more around people putting their own interest over the company's. So an example of that would be horse trading with a venture capitalist. So say that you know the perfect VC to invest in a company, but instead you send the company to somebody else or a different partner at that firm so that that person will then owe you a favor or you're paying them back for a favor. So there's some horse trading that, for example, investors do that is not actually good for the company, but it's good for them individually. When my first company, Mixer Labs, exited to Twitter, so Twitter bought it back in 2009, we actually had an investor who tried to block the exit as a way to negotiate more of the outcome for themselves. That was awful. I would never work with that fucker again. Excuse the language. So I think that as a founder, you really want to work with good people, but as an angel, you should really be asking yourself, when is somebody doing the right thing and how should I support them versus when should I grab for myself? And I think in general, you shouldn't grab for yourself. And then lastly, just giving bad advice. Like, I've seen brand name angels on e-mail threads give advice that was just they had no idea what they're talking about. And it was obvious, but the entrepreneur didn't know any better. And so the entrepreneur was like, oh, okay, of course, like I should go do this stupid thing. So I think ultimately, if you don't know, just you don't have to say anything. You can say, hey, let me find this person who's really good at exits or really good at late stage financings or really good at whatever. And that's enormously helpful. The flip of it is founders will sometimes behave badly as well. Founders may over-optimize round structures where they have three notes open concurrently and they throw investors into a different bucket based on their perceived value. And I think that's kind of over-optimizing round structure, or maybe they'll keep bouncing the note valuation up. They may not reward help. So say that you help a founder for a year and a half, and then you don't talk to them for a month, and you call them up and they say, oh, sorry, I just raised a round and I didn't tell you. I've seen that happen in a number of instances, and I think ultimately on the founder's side, you should be thinking about who actually helped me and I should reward them, not who's the brand name investor that I should pull in. Some founders will view the company's money as their own. You'll see these people sort of traveling the world supposedly to talk to customers. So that's bad. So there should be real governance around that. And then lastly, there are some founders who exit in ways that will really screw over investors. So one company that I invested in that exited at Jawbone, which then of course went bankrupt, so it should have been a sign, they that exited at Jawbone, which then of course went bankrupt, so it should have been a sign. They had $5 million that was invested in the company collectively. They received, I think, $15 million or so back as part of the acquisition. And the way they structured the acquisition was $10 million would go to one of the founders, $2 to $3 million went to the remaining founders, plus some employees, and then the investors ended up getting, like, say, 20, 30 cents on the dollar. That was an example of the founder acting badly relative to the people who backed them, spent years with them, and, you know, that was an example of a really bad exit in terms of the founder acting badly. Like, I would never back that person again. So that's it on my side, and I guess we have a great next speaker in Pejman. So just a brief introduction to Pejman, but before that, I do want to remind everyone, I see lots of you taking notes, and there were so much in that presentation to take notes on and I don't blame you. Or maybe you were writing emails, I don't know, but it looked like you were writing notes. All of the slides, the transcripts, and of course the videos of these will be online at investor.startupschool.org. Of course, it will take about 24 hours for each day to be posted, but they'll be there and they will stay there. So you'll be able to get everything that Elad said, that every speaker says in detail at your leisure. We often tell founders not to try to pull the wool over investors' eyes. We've talked a lot about trust. And we tell them if you do something that's untrustworthy, investors will not write a check because you guys know what happens if you write a check and the founder decides to go on a jaunt around the world like Elad mentioned. Tough, right? check and the founder decides to go on a jaunt around the world, like Elad mentioned, tough, right? There's not much you can do about that. Most great investors develop a sort of intuition, a way to judge people and founders. And so we tell founders, they're better at this than you are, usually. Don't do that. Be honest and direct. Pagemon is one of those people who has, I think, the most natural intuition about people. It's one of the things that's made him such an amazing investor and a way to connect with people and gain their trust of any investor, of any person I've met. And I do think that explains a lot of the extraordinary success he's had. So he's a well-known angel investor, as well as the founder of Pair VC and a good friend. So please welcome Paige Munn. Good morning, everyone. I think let's give a big round of applause for Y Combinator for doing such an amazing thing. And I want to especially thank my dear friend and my mentor, Jeff Ralston. So thank you, Jeff. I'm truly honored. I actually shouldn't be here today. By no standard or definition, I'll be qualified as a venture capitalist. I don't have a computer science degree from Stanford, nor am I a graduate from Harvard Business School. In fact, I'm a college dropout, and I never worked for a tech company, not even single day. Yet, I'm here. I have seeded over 200 startups in the last 18 years, seven of them worth over a billion dollars each, and I raised over 100 million dollars from top tier university endowments, corporations and institutions in America for my fund payer. So rather than talking about investment philosophy, trends, what is the next big thing which I think nobody knows, I decided to share my life story. And if there is only one thing I want to leave with you today is that impossible is nothing. I actually want to start to show you a picture of a very proud moment in my life. In 2014, I was among the hundred immigrants who received Ellis Island Medal of Honor for my contribution to America as an immigrant. It's such an honor for me because I think United States opened doors to me as an immigrant and gave me an opportunity to build my life. But as much as this moment means to me, it's not what defines who I am today. This one is, in 1992, I was homeless here in Silicon Valley. This is me sleeping in an attic above a yogurt shop in Redwood City, just five miles from here. It was a few months after I arrived in the U.S. from Iran. It was a few months after I arrived in the U.S. from Iran. You see, I came here in 1992 with only $700 in my pocket. I didn't speak English. And actually, I was in love with a girl in Iran, and I thought, I'm going to lose her. So I used that $700 to call her every day. And at that time, I think it was like $4 or $5 per minute. So I lost all the $700 in few weeks. And I ran out of money. So I had to found a job. And my first job was working in a car wash here in San Jose. I bought a car for $750. It was five payments of $150. And I was driving every day to this car wash But I tell you I was the best car washer the world has ever seen I took so much pride in that job little by little I my English improved I went to college and I landed a job here in this yogurt shop and somehow I convinced The owner to let me sleep in an attic over there because I wanted to save money. But I think it was kind of a transformative experience for me. Rather than being cornered, I thought if I can survive this, I can survive anything. And it was a tough days of my life. There was no air circulation, nothing. It was actually very low. It was actually an attic over there, and they used it for storage. But I think I gained a lot in those days because I knew this is not going to stay the way the car wash didn't stay there. And one night, I actually was studying, watching TV, and I saw this ad. It says, Medallion Rock Gallery in downtown Palo Alto is hiring salespeople. And as an Iranian, I mean, you think you know something about Persian carpets, which I didn't know anything. So I called. I called, and the gentleman interviewed me on the phone, and he asked me, have you sold carpets? I said, no. He asked, have you sold furniture? I said, no. Have you sold cars? I said, no. He said, I asked, have you sold furniture? I said no. Have you sold cars? I said no. I said, so they're not qualified. Why did you call? And before he hung up, I pleaded with him and asked him, how can you deny someone you haven't met? And it was a pause on the other side, and he asked me to meet him the next day. And the next day, he actually hired me on the spot. So this is part of the gallery. I arrive over there and the first thing I learned that Persian carpets are very expensive and most of the customers, they don't have any idea where these carpets are made, what is the material. And they couldn't figure out what the price would be. So selling carpets requires a lot of building relationship with the customer and especially for Persian carpets. They come to your store and they said we bought a home here and we go to their home. So I started to actually building this relationship with my customers in order to sell them carpets. And at one point, I think I sold over $8 million in one year. And this is perhaps a record. So I can claim I'm the best rug salesperson the world has ever seen. But after a few years, I figured out all of my customers are people in tech business. They are CEOs, venture capitalists. They are people like Elad and Jeff and other people. And I thought, I was just really amazed by them not only because they were wealthy people, they had beautiful homes, but I just learned about what they do and I thought, well, I'm witnessing in a community that really destined to change the world and I want to be part of it. I wasn't afraid to be part of that and I decided to do everything I can to become part of that community. So I kind of changed my mindset when I was meeting these entrepreneurs or CEOs at their home and I started to ask questions. I asked a lot of questions and little by little, I started to understand what's going on in the ecosystem, who is who, what is a startup, what does a venture capital mean, but remember, this is late 90s, early 2000s, so it was no Y Combinator, it was no TechCrunch, no AngelList, no blog, so in order for me to learn, I had to meet a lot of people, and gradually, after a few years, I built an amazing network of incredible people that typically it takes people to get an appointment with them in a year. I could have called them, go to their home because I had dinner with them two months ago with their family selling carpets. So this relationship was just really, really important. And one day I walked to my boss's office, who actually was a great entrepreneur. He left Iran in 1978 after the revolution. He actually was a great entrepreneur. He started his business in Iran when he was 15, and he built an empire in Iran. And I explained that, you know, we are in the rock business, we are in real estate, but I think we should be in tech. This is perhaps the most important street in the world, next to the most important university in the world, and I'm friends with the most important people in tech. Actually, he believed in me. And he said, okay, why don't we start to do that? Explain to me how you want to do it. And I said, oh, I know all the people, so I can invite them to the gallery. I put a lot of events, and I can build an advisory team from these people. He believed in me, he said, okay, we start, but you have to put 10% of the whole thing I'm putting. And it was around 200,000 for me. And I said, I don't have even $20,000 to do it. How do I do it? He said, we subtract from your commission every month. So I started to work harder, sell carpets to pay for the fund. So we started to do it. I think we made so much mistakes. The first, I think, challenge we had was telling people we are serious. So, you know, entrepreneurs, VCs, you know, used to go to elegant, polished offices at Sand Hill Road. They were coming to the Rug Gallery. And it was just a little bit odd, and they were kind people telling me this is odd. But I think they were coming to our office, and I'll show you part of it here. This is actually pretty amazing. These are all museum-quality carpets. This is the gallery, actually, I built after five years being there. And I actually closed the door so you couldn't get in unless you talked to me and have an appointment to come. I made it very exclusive. But I think in back of that, in that boardroom over there, we were serving Persian tea. And I think that actually was our magic. People really liked it. It was a way for me to get to know them, for them to get to know me. I think it was actually we talk about families, friends, and so on before anything else. And, you know, we started to make investment. I think the first nine months, perhaps, I have the worst track record in the history in investments. If you can look at the companies I invested, I invested in the companies after three months they were shutting doors and so on. But I didn't give up so and I thought the value I can bring at that time was really connecting people and I put a lot of events in the gallery. I remember once I invited entire senior partners of top-tier firms. I can't name them. I invited over 100 people from Iranian community in tech. Iranian community in tech are very influential here. I didn't know what the team should be. I had no clue. I thought maybe we should have a lot of fun so I invited belly dancers and I invited Persian food over there so at the end of the night people had so much fun over there I'm pretty sure there's some connection were made so little by little I my network grew and I started to make some good investments but what was important was, you know, people didn't judge me. I think that's one of the amazing things about Silicon Valley, that they actually opened their arms. They knew I'm outsider, but they let me learn and be part of it. And here was the gallery, actually, we made most of our investments. I actually was the first investor in danger in that room. Andy Rubin started danger. And as you know, he went on and created Android. That room is the exact room that I met. Actually, I made a deal with founders of Dropbox, Drew and Arash, in that room over tea. And the first time I met Drew and Arash was at Y Combinator demo day, exactly where Jeff is sitting now. Y Combinator was, there was a wall here, so this was the room. The audience were smaller than this side, and I walked to Drew and Arash exactly over there, and I really liked their presentation, and I invited them to the office here. And when Arash and Drew came, we didn't talk about cloud storage and Microsoft can kill you and so on. I was just really amazed by two incredibly young, talented founders who built a product that I thought I can use it. So we agreed on being a good partner with them over there. And the other things I think selling rugs taught me was just do whatever it takes to win. No task is too small for me. No task is too big. As a general partner of a VC firm in Silicon Valley, I still make tea and serve tea if you come to my office, but I think the best part of it, maybe the example is that I do whatever it takes for my founders, is actually this. This is Drew, the co-founder and CEO of Dropbox. He went on the cover of Forbes in 2012 after raising a massive round at around $4 billion valuation, and he shared this story of Sequoia Capital doing the seed round. And I played a role in that connection over there. And he called me a pimp. He said, Pajamon was Dropbox pimp. You can see down there. And I'm taking a lot of pride in it. Today, Dropbox is going public with $1.2 billion revenue. And I think no pimp has ever made more money than I did on this. The other one, actually, this is just off the press. You know, DoorDash, another amazing Y Combinator company, which actually I met the founder at Y Combinator demo day, just raised $500 million and I made that intro to SoftBank. The point I want to make is this, be truthful to yourself, really understand your strength and leverage that in what you do. So for me, it was like wanting to play in NBA, but I knew I cannot be Kobe Bryant. So I decided to do the best agent possibly I can. I also make mistakes. I actually make some really big mistakes. in July 2005 from a lawyer of Facebook, letting me know that I can invest $50,000 in series B of Facebook, which was under $100 million. I think it was around $80 million valuation. I think the market cap of Facebook is over $500 billion. So you can do your calculation. This is more than perhaps 10,000x in that time. On the left side, if you look at the Mark Zuckerberg's and Sean Parker's email, it still was the Facebook. They hadn't changed the name of the company. On the right side, on top, you can see the 50,000 was exact to the cents to the wire, $49,998.04. But if you pay attention, down there on the right side, it says 165 University Avenue. So part of the investment was they wanted to lease one of our offices on University Avenue for five years. So we went back and forth, and we didn't agree on the lease terms, and we didn't invest in Facebook. So I learned the big lessons and I want to share it with you. So one, when you see an exceptional founder, those outliers who are actually from Mars, do not over analyze the situation, just get on the rocket ship and go. And two, never let those extra four cents distract you. You have to see the forest through the trees. So I made more mistakes, but this was the biggest, so I thought maybe to share with you. Fast forward, I started a fund in 2013, with my partner Mar Hershenson. Actually, Mar is an incredible woman from Barcelona. She has PhD from Stanford in electronic engineering. She was a consulting professor and started three companies from scratch. I was very fortunate to be an investor in her second company in 2003. So we have been very fortunate to invest in really category-defining companies that collectively now they're worth over $25 billion. Actually, the very first line, if you see all those companies, are YC companies, Dropbox, Gusto, Dorash, Mubox, and many others. And the idea is just investing very early, and we're actually very much founders and market-driven, and we can talk about it more after this. But throughout the years, people ask me, Pajman, how do you work with founders? How do you find these founders? What do you look for into these founders? And although a lot of founders have different backgrounds, different families, histories, different religion, and so on. I think there are some traits that are common among them, and I thought maybe I should share these things with you. So, I am actually worried about founders who come with 20 ideas and narrow it down to one because it's more feasible. I actually like founders who have history with the problem they're solving. The best founders not necessarily are chasing the next big thing ideas, rather they are solving a real problem that they had themselves. And these problems tend to be very specific, like connecting people with cars to people who need rides, or storing your data remotely, or creating a chat room that employees can communicate to each other. So these are the ideas and problems that become the Ubers and Dropbox or Slacks of our world. And I think if somebody truly understands the problem they're solving in depth, these are the people who won't give up when things become tough. So I don't think there's anything wrong with big ideas, but I think companies are set out to solve problems that founders have experienced. And it's that kind of genuine connection between founders and the problem that drives them to solve and even beat the odds. Obviously, I'm looking for founders who are taking big risks on behalf of their ideas. I like founders who are self-aware, very confident, but they're taking this risk. Typically, if they're waiting for the seat round to be raised before they drop their job, I think it's not a good sign for me. And I think this is very obvious among the best founders. You know, building companies, it's very, very hard. It's kind of an emotional roller coaster. So I'm looking for founders who are not easily rattled. And I'll share a story with you. A few years ago, I had a conversation with the first-time founder who said, oh, Peshman, you know, he had a tough time raising money. And he said, you know, Silicon Valley is like war zone. And, you know, I told him that I was in the war zone. It's nothing like it. And I shared the story with him that, you know, I started my very first business when I was a teenager during Iran and Iraq war. At that time, Iraqi jets were coming over Tehran almost every night. And some of the nights, because of Iran's anti-aircraft, these jets couldn't get low to drop the bomb. So at the end of their mission, they were breaking the sound barrier. As a result, these windows were shattered and the pieces were coming to your eyes and I had this idea that I should go sell duct tapes to shops. So I bought a lot of duct tapes. I walked the longest street in Tehran door by door and explained that this Iraqi jet is coming tonight and I think you should put these duct tapes on your windows. At the end of the night nobody bought anything from me and I just you should put these duct tapes on your windows. At the end of the night, nobody bought anything from me, and I just gave up. And I think, which reminds me that, you know, the best founders I know are extremely focused and persistent, and they never give up. I mean, the best founders, maybe they would have gone to the different street tomorrow, maybe try a different sales speech, maybe selling a different color. So what I want to bring it up here, the best founders really don't give up that easy. I actually love the founders who are paranoid in a healthy way. I respond to founders who are confident and they have a very clear idea idea what kind of future they're building but they're double and triple checking every decision they make. Being paranoid doesn't mean that you have to be harsh or unkind. I actually look for founders who put the company and their teams above themselves and they can attract talents. I actually think a good CEO is like a captain of the ship. A good captain knows directionally where the ship is going and will do anything to get there. A good captain is incredibly loyal to his or her shipmates. And a great captain is willing to go down with the ship. And lastly, I think vision. I think I look for founders who have a long-term vision instead of just a short-term goal. You know, I always ask, are they focusing on getting rich pretty quickly or they're, you know, insanely focused to make customers happy or creating jobs or build a company that change an industry? These are the questions I ask. I think founders should be very well aware of what kind of future they're building and I share another story last year I think was last year was Dropbox the 10th year anniversary and I was talking to Drew and I asked Drew you know fast forward in 10 years where do you think Dropbox is and in Drew instead of telling me what product he's building and so on, he said, Pejman, in 10 years, means at the 20th year anniversary of Dropbox, Dropbox will reduce the workdays from five to four. That's kind of the mission-driven founders you want to work with. He didn't say what I'm building. He was just the result of Dropbox. We make so many tools that people are going to be more productive, so you only need four days a week to work. So those are the type of founders, those are the type of mission I'm talking about here. Anyway, I think there's not a perfect formula by any means. I made many bad investments investments and I've seen many gifted people fail. I think the reason I connect well with founders is this thing inside us that nothing is impossible and there's nothing we can do. That's why I always look at this photo and it was a start for me. I didn't have money but I had hope that I can make changes and I had hope that if with enough sacrifice, enough work, I can make something out of myself. And by the way, the girl who I called, we are celebrating our 25th anniversary this year with two beautiful children, so for sure the best investment I've ever made. Thank you very much. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3, 4. Male Speaker 1, 2, 3 All right. Thanks, guys. Okay, we're going to take questions from out in cyberspace. If you send it to hashtag YCSIS or in the Slack channel, and I will call on folks back here. So you were allowed, you were talking about team and the voice that drives the founder. What is that voice that drives the founder and the team? I don't think there needs to be a set one that's the same for every founder. I think it has to do more with the fact that they're driven to keep going, to Peshman's point. Like they have to be relentless. And I mean, starting a company is incredibly hard in all sorts of ways that people who haven't started one just can't really empathize with. And you need somebody who's sort of egging you on internally to have you keep going. And the question is, who is that? It could be the founder themselves, it could be a relative, it could be the passion for the idea even, but there needs to be something that really is that driving force. Often it's a person. So with that being said, what drives you? So what drives you? It's a long answer. How much time do we have? Yeah, exactly. We almost start going into therapy or something. Everybody will start crying. It's going to be too much. Back there. which is the farmers are great, but there's a need in them. We invested in them about six months back, seven weeks ago, and we promised that we're going to leverage the technology. Money's running out. We have to run with the farmers. We have to communicate with them that we don't see the... We see farmers are committed, but there's problems and we have to be glad that there's a kind of situation where we believe the business is So, a long question about an investment that had been made in the past and everything seems to be coming together except the business doesn't seem to be working quite right. How do you evaluate situations like that? Yeah, I can speak about that. I don't know if you invested six months ago, was it kind of the ground zero, or was it mature company? Typically, the first start, nothing works. So the fact that it doesn't work, it shouldn't scare you as an investor. If you really believe these are exceptional founders, there's a big market, our philosophy here as a fund is just backing them up. But I don't know if this three years in the business is still going slow, or it's just the beginning of the life cycle. I fear that it's a fantastic question, but there's not going to be a quick answer here. This is figuring out whether you should put more money into a company is extraordinarily complex. put more money into a company is extraordinarily complex. And I think if you can't, I don't know if these guys are going to be able to hang out at all at the end, but if you can grab them, you can actually have a conversation. But I fear that one requires a conversation, not a quick answer and a lot of back and forth. And there's so many different questions you'd have to ask to figure out whether this is a company that is, you know, most planes that go into a dive hit the ground, right? Mostly. But some don't, and some pull back up. Making a decision as to which one you're on is hard. Questions? Right here. So great question. Perhaps both of you can take a shot at it. How do you divide your time between sourcing and actually helping the founders in whom you have invested? You know, I think doing an investment is three buckets, as you mentioned, is important, making sure you have an extremely good quality deal flow and then the ability to pick winners and then how do you help them. You know, when I was an angel investor, so I spent a lot of time to making sure we have a very quality deal flow. You know, after doing this 18 years, I spent a lot of time, but not as much as before. And as a team now, we divide that different responsibilities. So I think you have to see what situation you are in. If you have a really good deal flow and you have a few founders that you really need their help, you can juggle between these things. I don't think it's just one rule that you have to just divide it by three. It all depends on the life cycle of the company and where you stand as an investor. I think I have two answers to that, just to add really quickly. One is more around the team or the company itself, and one is around how you help. I think in general, when you help companies, it comes, it goes in spikes versus it's sustained throughout. If you're sustainably having to interfere or help with a company every day, then there's either something wrong with that company or with the founders. And so I think the best founders need help with these spikes where they're like, now we're figuring out X, help us with that. Or now we need to hire this person, help us find that. But they're not depending on you for everything. Yeah, right here. So for Elad, if you're a market-driven investor and you're investing really early before you see what the business growth curve looks like. How do you make those decisions? I look at two things. One is the total addressable market or the TAM. So how big can this market often be? And people tend to delude themselves in both directions. So Chris Dixon has this great line that the most interesting companies start off looking like a toy. So many things look small or niche, and you really have to extrapolate and say, okay, if this thing actually works, how big will it be? And that ends up giving you some sense of market size and outcome, and often you're off by an order of magnitude, but that could be a good thing. Maybe you think it's a billion-dollar company, and it's a $10 or $30 billion company. So I think that's one. Two is really the competitive dynamic. And three is, are people paying them? And if people are paying them early, it's actually a very good sign because startup products tend to be awful. Early founders tend to be terrible salespeople. There's all these things that suggest that if you can actually get somebody to give you money, despite all the flaws, you're doing something amazing. Sort of a similar question from online is really for both of you. It's directed at Elad, but it's really for both of you. A lot of the best companies, the total addressable market is just not obvious. Uber is sort of the classic example where you look at that and say, a taxi market, that's boring, it's small. But it turned out there was a much larger market that would be created once you created a service as convenient as that sort of ride sharing. How do you guys think about what might be instead of what is? think about what might be instead of what is. Actually, if you look at our portfolio companies, it seems all over the place. It seems we don't know what we're doing because it's from consumer space all the way to biotech and to drones and so on. And this really belief that we have that entrepreneurs see future before us. So as part of it, it just let them educate us about it. Obviously we do our analysis of the market and so on, but many often times that we really can assess that and it's just trusting entrepreneurs that they have this belief that once we partner with them, I think it's obviously we follow their lead over it. But as you mentioned, it's just very very hard at some of the companies. So I do want to point out that we're running way late. I kind of expected that would happen today. Luckily, this is our room, so we're not going to get kicked out or anything. But I do want to be respectful of your all-time and the time of our folks here. So I'm only going to take a few more questions. Yes, back there. Okay, so the fundamental question, you're a busy person, you want to do angel investing, how do you go about getting started, getting deal flow? I think there's three things. Number one, you can start writing blog posts or other things about your industry if you think your industry is an interesting place to invest and people will come to you. So it's almost like content marketing for startups or for investment. Number two is if there are things adjacent to your company that are non-competitive that you think are very good, those are very natural things. And three, I'm assuming that, you know, at least when I was starting my first company, for example, I had a peer group of first-time founders that I was working with or getting advice from. And over time, that led to some cross-investments. And so I think those are three great initial sources. I suggest go to your immediate network and build around that a better network. I remember when I started in the late 90s and I didn't know how to find founders. I was going on Stanford Computer Science, actually school, looking at every name that look Iranian or Persian and sending an email and inviting him for tea and I ended up investing in two which he sold the company to Google and he's now professor at MIT and I keep getting a lot of great entrepreneurs from him so there are ways to do it and sometimes cold calls go a long way. I think one related thing though to think about is your own company versus the time you spend investing. So I'd also be a little bit cautious. One more great question. So when there are co-founder conflicts, what roles do you guys or what role do you guys play when you run into those uncomfortable situations? No comment. Well, there's two types of co-founder conflicts, resolvable and unresolvable. I'd say if it starts very early, usually it's unresolvable and somebody's going to have to leave. If it starts late, usually there's a reason and you can fix it I think for early-stage startups you as an investor you have to play a role as a mom and dad brother sisters and sometimes it's about you know founders conflict so many often times is not a providing advice about product market fitter raising money is just you're all human and and they question themselves every day. It's a lonely job, so just be there for them. And I'll add one more thing. I think that the base of most relationship conflict of any kind in your personal relationships or in your founder relationships is some kind of communications breakdown. So my advice is usually, you two, you three, you five, whatever, you need to talk. And if there's going to be a solution, it's going to be in that communications. Sometimes it makes things better. Sometimes it makes things worse. But I would argue it would have gotten worse anyway. I really apologize for cutting what I'm sure you have a lot more questions. But let's give these guys a round of applause. And thank you so much for coming. We're going to take a very short 10 minute break and then get started right away with our next. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you You don't want to miss these two investors. Please come sit. Grazie. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay So, thank you for breaking briefly. A little bit more of the same but different. You're going to see a slightly different focus and a different conversation this afternoon from a couple of other investors, Jeff Clavier and Andrea Zurich. in the very beginning of my venture into venture when I first started investing a long time ago. And he taught me as many lessons about how to be a good investor and in two senses, how to be a good investor by making good choices, and how to be a good investor partner to the founders with whom I would invest and become partners with. I don't think anyone in the industry is as helpful as Jeff, an extremely smart, perceptive investor, and I've learned a ton from him. His comments that hits home and that you all should pay attention to with the founders that you work with is that, he says, I wish startups focused more. There are always too many things on their plate. It's actually true of Jeff generally, There are always too many things on their plate. It's actually true of Jeff. Generally, there's always too many things on his plate. I'm very grateful that he added one more and came and talked to us today. Jeff Clavier. Thank you. Thank you so much. He's a great investor without anyone else helping him. So it's a pleasure to be here. investor without anyone else you know helping him so it's a pleasure to be here um it's super exciting to see so many people who are ready to do the most exciting thing that you can think of which is see the eyes see the future through the eyes of founders and try and help them help them with a bit of capital help them with a lot of help so congratulations for that um i decided to cover what seems to be a boring subject and yes yes, it's kind of boring, asset allocation and portfolio construction. But I hope that any of my talk you'll have realized why I decided to spend the next 20 minutes on that, because it's actually really important to think about all those things as you get on your annual journey. Sort of brief bio, so I was born French, did a startup in the financial services market in France, got acquired, spent seven years at Reuters as a senior exec, so did the big company thing, moved here 18 years ago to become a traditional VC, and then in 2004 saw this emergence of Web 2.0 companies, and at the time, believe it or not, they were just a handful of angels actually backing those entrepreneurs who were looking to raise a few hundred thousand dollars. So I jumped in and became one of the then super angels. Uncork, you might have heard of us as Softech, is now 14 years old, 200 deals, bunch of successes, some of the companies that we backed, blah, blah, blah. Those are the funds that we're now investing out of fund five, it's a $100 million fund, we have a growth fund as well. But I want to spend time on this part 14 years ago when I was investing my own capital as an angel. So what I like to do in those kinds of events is go back in history and talk about, hey, this is what I wish someone had told me then, as opposed to me discovering it. And it's kind of important to figure out how much of your net worth you should be investing, risking with entrepreneurs because it's a pretty bold thing to do. It's a very long game. I'm sure you've heard that already over the past couple of days, sitting with all those sort of awesome angels, the thing that people don't always appreciate as angels is how long it is going to take to sort of get this sort of massive outcome that you're all hoping for. And yes, there are billion dollar outcomes that happen within one or two years of the company being founded but that's the extreme kind of example that almost never happens for you for most angels you will take it to 10 years so start sort of being ready for that obviously it's very risky, so you're going to have losses. Those will come very fast, typically. So bad news comes first in our industry. And something which I've seen with our funds, getting in the money. So let's say you've decided to invest 250K in a portfolio of companies, it will probably take six years to get that cash back. And then you will get into profits. That's what VC funds do. They get the fund back to LPs within six years, and then they start getting carried. It's really super risky. And so at the end of the day, you have to be modest and realistic and understand that anything you invest has a high likelihood of just being wiped out, which means don't invest money that you can't lose. If you actually get anything out of this talk, that's one sentence. If ever you need the cash back, don't invest it in startups. So just to put things in context, your investment will be part of... Okay, that's interesting. So it's supposed to show you an ecosystem with all the seed stage, pre-seed, whatever. Unfortunately, it's not showing up for some reason. Can you sort of see why? Okay, good. Thank you. So this is the kind of compressed ecosystem in which you guys will operate. So you'll typically be at the top, right? You invest at pre-seed, seed, maybe a bit later. Most angels don't really sort of come into companies at some series and so on and so forth. So you'll be part of this, right? And you guys will sort of start figuring out your own comfort with valuations. And a simple way to think about valuations is that their reflection of the traction or lack thereof the company has achieved the risks that are still on the table as opposed to the ones that have been taken of the table and the potential of the company and so when you invest as an angel typically it's the highest risk it's the, typically it's the highest risk, it's the lowest valuation, it's the longest holding, and it's the highest multiple potential, highest return sort of multiple potential. It's important for you to figure out, and I'm gonna give two examples. Think about Dropbox. Dropbox you could have invested if you were lucky at 3 pre, but that was at the crazy time where there was barely a product and it was just the two founders, product, revenues, and so forth, but obviously the difference in terms of return potential between $4 billion and $3 million is pretty different. So, asset allocation. How much of your net worth should you allocate to enjoy investments? Obviously, it's your choice, but I would really ask you to think about this framework, which is, okay, I'm going to lose everything that I'm going to put in, and I have to be okay with it. That was sort of my pitch to my wife 14 years ago, when I said, hey, so we had made a little bit of money at Reuters, when we sold the company, and so on and so forth, and I said, so I want to try and be a full-time Android investor. I'm going to take 250K of our hard-earned savings and invest them in startups, consumer startups. And I'm going to do nothing but that for 18 months. Okay? And the comment was, but you know nothing about the consumer stuff. But, you know, she loves me, and so she said yes. But I don't think I told her the bit about, hey, we're going to lose everything. But that's really important. That's the way to think about it. Everybody has, you know. Everybody has circumstances. If you have a family, if your partner doesn't work, whatever. I think 10% is probably a sound number. When you think about the guys who have a lot of money to allocate to different asset classes like pension funds, typically they do 5% to 10% in VC and private equity, so two asset classes. So that Stanford goes up to 25% in VC and PE. So I think 10% is a good number. And you can always sort of do more if you're successful but at least put put a cap out there. There's always sort of a notion of okay so 10% fine what is the minimum? Once again it sort of depends on your portfolio construction and we'll talk about that. But obviously with the Jobs Act it's possible for non-accredited investors, so all you guys are accredited, to actually participate through angel syndicates and so forth. You could decide to put like a thousand dollars per company and be an angel investor. Why not? I would say for you guys who want to do this professionally or semi-professionally, I think that thinking about an initial budget of $100,000, which you would divide in a number of slots, up to a million dollars if you have the means, is a good way to think about it. You want to think about a certain investment horizon you don't want to try and shove all this cash in the first few months of your activity because the challenge I mean there was a question earlier about how do I bootstrap my deal flow that's a great question which is hey how do I tell the world that I'm an angel investor knowing that now it's pretty popular the other is that because you don't have any sort of sense of what's good. What's not everything is good Like I loved everything I was seeing you know back in the day The problem is you need to normalize you need to sort of figure out What is the the bar that you set for us out for yourself in terms of investing and? If there's you know one thing to do is put the bar high in terms of investing. And if there's, you know, one thing to do is put the bar high. So I'm repeating that. Segregating the cash and making it sort of move to a different account that you actually don't mentally think about. It's not something that you use for paying taxes or, you know, your expenses or whatever is actually a good trick. So portfolio construction, that defines the key factors of your investment strategy. And so there's a few sort of factors and there's more, but it's the check size. What's gonna be your average check size when you sort of invest? What is the target number of investments per year? Do you want to have a concentrated portfolio? Do you want to have a larger portfolio? What are the sectors you want to invest in? We heard, you know, about different strategies. You could be very focused on what you are an expert in, and if you're building a company in a given sector, and as he had sort of said you write about it people so will come to you with things in that industry and that you know really well about that's a completely legit sort of investment strategy another could be hey there's five or six sectors I'm interested in I'm just gonna go for them then figure out whether you want to be like super early pre-seed as we call it, which is you actually help the founder to build the product or maybe you know seed stage where we at Uncork invest where we launch the product and we invest roughly you know nine to twelve months after the pre-seed stage. Geographies, do you want something which is in your backyard so you can actually meet your CEOs? You know, why not? And will you only do sort of investments at whatever seed stage, pre-seed stage, your first check, or will you actually try and follow on and go into your company? So those are sort of a few, six sort of factors I want you guys to think about as you sort of define your investment strategy and that's what we call portfolio construction. And by the way, that's how we do it as well. So, a few examples. So, when I started, I was writing 25 to 50K checks, right? And there wasn't like a super hard rule as to whether it was 25 or 50, checks, right? And there wasn't like a super hard rule as to whether it was 25 or 50, depending on the deal, what was available and so on and so forth. The point is to have some consistency. If you have 100k here and 5k there, it's hard to have sort of a real strategy because obviously the 100k will take all your sort of attention because it will be a much larger check for you. There's no magic number. I like the 10 to 12 investments per year. That's a good number. It's a good pace. It's enough that you can actually put a bunch of points on the board. It's roughly 35 to 40 investments over three years. That's a good size portfolio, that's actually the size of our funds portfolio. Some people want to go 400, some people want to do, you know, one or two deals a year. It's okay as long as you build your narrative and your strategy around the number that you're comfortable with. Those are the sectors we invest in, all of them, right? We can do that because we've been around forever and people sort of know that regardless of the sector we'll do a good job supporting our companies, even some of the more adventurous today like space tech where I would lie saying that I'm an expert in space tech because I've done one company, but we know how to build startups. We can do that. It's up to you to figure out where you want to play. Those are some early stage sectors I sort of mentioned. So pre-seed, you build the product, seed, you launch it. Post-launch means you start having sort of more data and some people are not comfortable investing before the company's in revenue. The good news is the whole gamut is actually feasible today as an angel because there are so many companies which actually going through funding and accessible to people. Once again figure out this equation of how much risks are you sort of comfortable taking on and you know the later stage you invest, the more data you have. Very different strategies. Some people want to be local. That was very VC, right? So investing in companies where you can actually drive for an hour or two, or maximum of an hour or two. Coasts, so we do Silicon Valley and New York, Boston. So that's our strategy. You could sort of decide to invest anywhere and figure out how to support your investments and figure out what to do through Scap Sessions. And there's a new strategy, Steve Case is doing the rest of the rest, which is invest everywhere, which is not a well-known sort of center for startups once again all the strategies are valid you have to sort of decide Which one you're the most comfortable with and? Then you know on the phone on side so obviously because you invest at the lowest Sort of valuation your multiple will be the highest right, but if ever you find an awesome company You want to double down and do the next round you're gonna sort of increase your price per share but you're gonna increase also the amount of capital on which the return multiple will apply. There's once again no good answer it's whatever you guys are comfortable with. As an angel I never did any follow on. Do I regret it? Well for the best deals of course but that was also my strategy which said I assume that the return potential of angel investment will be higher than my follow on in series A or or series B and if I was running the math which I haven't done I probably would have sort of it would have been the case for everything but the top two or three deals where even the series A series investment would have generated like a massive return so why is this important this is what will drive the way you think about building a portfolio. If ever you have a buddy who is building a company and you want to support her or him, yeah I mean no need to think too hard about this, but if you really want to become a semi-pro angel it's really important to define those characteristics. It will help once you've decided for example which sectors like all this narrative I shared with you right this is something which becomes the natural filters for people who actually come to you with deals right. I will tell you that I'm doing seed stage investment, million dollar average, I told you about our geographies, I told you about our sectors, now you can send me deals because you know what I'm going to look at. It's a very natural filter, so expose those characteristics. It's true for your inbound deal flow, people sending you deals, It's true for your outbound kind of when you reach out to an entrepreneur, you sort of know what to look for because you have defined those characteristics. One thing which is very important is, because it's super risky to make those investments, is have a sector and time-based approach to spreading risk. So the reason why I suggest to say, hey, figure out your budget and invest it over three years is because time diversification is good. You never know, you know, even though in this, in Silicon Valley, we don't really have the notion of everyone invests when the market is good and everybody stops investing when the market is bad. It's always better to spread your investments over time. And sectors, unless you really want to double down on one sector you know really well, spreading it across sectors is a good way to avoid tanking. Example, meal kits, right? There was a time when there were like 12 or 15 meal kits companies. Blue Apron and Playdate and so on and so forth. You may have wanted to have one, you don't want to do the 12 because the rule in those markets is always the best one makes a bunch of money, the second one makes some money and the rest wipes out. I like the fact that because you have this strategy it's going to force your calibration so what sort of deals will make it to the top of your funnel and the pacing because of what I just described. So that's it that was your primer on asset allocation and portfolio construction and once again remember the worst that can happen is that you lose everything and so don't put you know all your cash in there. Good luck. Thank you, Jeff. As I mentioned before, again, we're going to have both come up and talk, and then we'll do a Q&A. I realized after I sat down that I did I just I got so excited that Jeff was gonna come speak that I did a terrible job of introducing him and what I really meant to say was there's there has been this transformation in early-stage investing that took place over the last decade or so and Jeff was actually one of the transformational characters in that story as these prolific angels emerged who then often professionalized what they were doing, as Jeff pointed out in his talk. And he became one of the very, very first super angels. And I think that was instructive to lots of us who are watching and trying to participate in the angel space. And, you know, he did that. He understood very early on on to do that. And you've seen this with the other two investors you saw. They built personal brands, and Jeff built a very significant brand about himself. And the next investor who's coming up, Andrea has built an amazing brand around her, herself, amazing brand around her, herself, her investing organization, I guess I should call it, called XG. And she's going to talk a bit about how you might think about building the brand that is going to allow you to become known, to become the sort of investor that great founders will want to have as part of your company. Andrea? Andrea? Thanks, Chuck. Oh, I think I did that myself, actually. Let me go back to the beginning. Okay, so I'm Andrea, and... Okay, someone needs to take this away from Okay, so I'm Andrea and, okay, someone needs to take this away from me because I feel like, is it auto? Can we slow it down then? Because it goes way too fast. We gotta give Run DMC some props before I clear that slide. This wouldn't be a real school of presentations. That's true, that's a good point. Okay, cool. Because I didn't think I was that trigger happy. Okay. Okay. So, we're on DMC. Does everyone recognize, I hope, this band? No? Yes? No? Okay. So, for those of you that may or may not recognize them, so they kind of made a name for themselves, I'd say probably in the 80s, a little bit into the 90s. Rap artist band and just really fun music that came out of that time period, but I think the reason why I have them sort of as my starter slide is that not only did they build a brand around their own name and band, you know, as rock stars, as rap artists, they also leveraged other brands. So if you can see in the slide, you know, they're repping Adidas, basically. And they also were wearing, like, the brand at the time was Kangaroo, and they were wearing Kangaroo hats. And I thought they just did a really phenomenal job of making what basically were sports brands their own brands and kind of making them like streetwear brands. And now to this day, Adidas is still a pretty popular brand and they continue to reinvent themselves. So, anyways, that's why I thought I would kind of take a fun, bright approach to today because I'm sure you've been absorbing lots of content. And I wanted to be able to impart some fun, kind of cool ideas that I'm hoping you can take away from today's presentation. Okay, should I be brave enough to do the next one? So what is a brand? I'm actually going to open that up to the audience. What are two of you guys, in your words, identify what a brand is? Any takers okay yeah okay promise of quality that's good I like both of those terms promise and quality okay yeah also good collection of interactions customers is a key term there. Absolutely, yeah, DNA. Yeah, that's correct. Yep, so I just sort of have a smattering of exactly what everyone in the audience that participated sort of has already been saying. So, you know, obviously we have a few identifiers in here, not only consumer brands, but also tech brands. I mean, obviously consumers like McDonald's, and we also talked about Adidas earlier. Here in the Valley, we have tech brands, including Facebook, Google, Apple. One would argue that a lot of those brands, to all the points that were brought up today, when you think of Apple, you think of product innovation. When you think of Google, you think of search. These are companies that have basically branded themselves based on what they are promising to deliver to their customers. So I thought it would be fun to take a look at, what are the world's most valuable brands? Actually, before I put this slide up, I should have had you guys guess. So can anyone, without looking at this chart, tell me what they think is like the top brand as of last year, 2017? Don't look at the chart. Anyone? Yeah, Apple. Okay, you probably already looked at the chart. So anyways, sorry it's so tiny, but I just did a little screen capture. So this is coming out of Forbes of 2017. So Apple's the top brand, according to this particular research piece. Apple followed by Google, Microsoft, although I would argue that. But anyways, and then Facebook, Coca-Cola, Amazon, and Disney. And then, of course, obviously, the list goes down. But my point is, you know, these are the companies that we all recognize. And so what I would ask the audience today is, when you think of these companies, and you think about building your own personal brand, you know, how did these companies rise to this list? You know, how do they maintain themselves on this list? What are the qualities that embody these particular companies? And as you start to form your own brand and your own firm's brand, do you want to be seen, you know, can you see yourself on a list of other angel investors and or micro VCs? So when I was thinking about putting together this presentation, I was also kind of thinking about, you know, what does the term brand mean? And we've kind of already been talking about this morning. And I thought Jeff Bezos of Amazon did a really good job of kind of distilling in one sentence what a brand is all about. And I really like this particular moniker. And he's basically saying, your brand is what other people say about you when you're not in the room. And I think that's really important. You know, your reputation basically precedes you. And how do you want to identify yourself and be known, I guess, in the valley or whatever, you know, geographic region applies to you. And you want to be proud of that. Obviously, you don't want people talking smack about you. So you want your brand to precede you. And so again, when I was putting together this presentation, I mean, obviously, I definitely don't want to tell you how to build your own personal brand. And I don't want to say, for example, what made XG Ventures unique is what is going to make you unique. You have to kind of come to terms with that yourself. But what I wanted to do today is just kind of give you some things to think about and just to kind of park in the back of your mind as you're starting to go down this journey and adventure of angel investing. Keep these things in mind. And so, you know, when I was going through different image searches looking through Google, I pulled this one, and I thought, gosh, you know what, brand is kind of interesting because it's brought up, you know, it's sort of a combination of a lot of these different qualities, like trust, loyalty, opinion, quality, perception. These are all kind of like loosey-goosey terms, but they actually mean a lot if you really take time and think about it. And then the one thing that wasn't on the chart that I added is integrity. And I think that's kind of an interesting term to keep in mind. And the only reason I bring that up is because, at least in the tech sector, and one would argue also in other industries and sectors, you really have to have integrity as a brand. Like Uber is one example. If you were an early investor in Uber and you knew about all the challenges that they were having, you know, without kind of going through them all, but like the sexual harassment and all these other different things, what would you do as an investor? Would you raise your hand? Would you say something about it? You know, would you keep yourself quiet? You know, what are all these different things? And so just one thing to keep in mind is you do build out your brand, sort of think about what you're going to stand for ethically as well. So I'm sure you guys have heard about this a lot in the last couple days, but there are several different paths you can take. You can, you know, if you think about doing angel investing, you can be a standalone angel investor. How do you come up with your own personal brand? Or would you like to be a member of a group? I mean, one of the things that I did very early on is I recognized that I obviously was not an expert, and I still don't think I'm a total expert. I'm totally learning. But I joined an angel group, and that was probably one of the smartest things I did because I could learn from other people. And so you could still be an individual contributor, but you could also learn from a group. And so some of the angel groups out there, there's a ton of them. But one of the groups that I joined early on was called Sandhill Angels. And I thought it was kind of a cool segment of people from lots of different industries. So if I wasn't a healthcare expert, someone that worked at Johnson & Johnson was, and I was able to learn from that person. And so these are just some ideas of things to think of if you want to be an individual. You know, Jeff mentioned earlier that AngelList syndicate. You know, you can obviously go on and join other syndicates, or you could create your own syndicate on AngelList. There's a great association that I just wanted to throw out. It's called ACA. It's called Angel Capital Association. And that's sort of its own grouping, I guess, of other angel groups that you could search for if you're looking at joining one. Or you could create your own branded firm, which is what we did at XG Ventures. This is after I had made some good investments with Sandheel Angels. I had made some terrible ones. I had lost a lot of money. And I thought, okay, I need to regroup here. I need to think about what I want to do going forward. And that's what I'll talk about next. And then lastly, do you feel confident knowing what you're doing? Or can you strike out on your own? And then ultimately, you need to decide what's right for you. So who's XG Ventures? We like to call ourselves short XGB. But we were super, super lucky. Not only do we recognize it obviously took a lot of work and effort, but we were very fortunate at the time. Both my business partner Pietro Dova and myself, we were super early at Google. So we joined as sub-100 employees. I mean, I was there when there were basically only five desks in the building. There were very few people working at Google when I joined. But it was a very special time, and we learned a lot. And not only do we learn lots of different lessons, but we mostly learned the culture behind Google and what it meant, and don't do evil, do things keeping the customer in mind, great user experience, all these different things. So when Pietro and I decided to leave Google in 2007, we formed XG Ventures in 2008. And remember, I was doing angel investing on my own in 2007. So in 2008, we decided to join forces. And we thought, you know what? More heads at this, the better. At the time, we had two other business partners. They've since decided to kind of peel off and do their own thing. But basically, I'd say for the last probably eight out of those ten years, Pietro and I have been doing XG Ventures on our own. And so what we wanted to do is very early on, we decided we wanted to create a brand. We wanted to be known for doing something different. And so we recognized the power of Google and we wanted to sort of capture that. So that's why the G in XG Ventures is a nice homage to Google. So we're essentially ex-Googlers, hence XG Ventures. And then we had a mission very early on. We wanted to be able to give back to the startup community from which we came from. We definitely were very humble going into angel investing as a business. We did not think that we had all the answers, but we definitely wanted, there was a little bit of altruism there in addition to writing checks. We wanted to be able to dedicate our time and we wanted to be accessible. So we didn't want to be those quiet angel investors that just sort of wrote that first check and disappeared. We were giving people you know our cell phone, our email number. We'd meet them for coffee. We were doing anything that it took just to help those particular companies get off the ground. And then the other thing I wanted to point out is that we did have a chance to raise a fund. We decided not to just for personal reasons. And we've been going 10 years strong, and essentially it's our own capital. So we're considered an evergreen fund. And so what that means is that when a good deal comes along, we decide what type of check we want to write, whether we joke like $0 or if it's in the high six figures. And then obviously we want to keep our pro rata. So on average, like Jeff was saying, we do about 10 to 12 deals a year, making room, of course, to continue to keep our current investments alive. And with that, we've built out over 100 portfolio companies. And I just included some logos here that you might recognize and actually want to use some of their companies too. So we invest in something called Carta, which is pretty cool. A lot of startup companies use it. A lot of law firms use it. It's a great way to kind of capture and manage all of your companies, your shares, your 409A plans, et cetera. I won't read all of them or I won't go through all of them, but the other company we invest in is called L, Shift Cars, Third Love. And we were super fortunate to be early investors in Wish. And we think we're keeping our fingers crossed that particular company goes IPO this year. And we've also been recognized in the industry. I'm not going to go through the different things. But as you brand yourself, I think someone else mentioned, you know, a good way of getting your own brand out there is to start blogging about things that are passionate for you and be known in the industry for whatever that little niche is. And that's a good way to be picked up as well. So that being said, the first draft of everything is totally shit, like what I said before. You know, I'm definitely not here to tell you what's going to work, what's not going to work. You know, it's all trial and error. I think, you know, Jeff mentioned that. I'm sure other speakers have mentioned that as well. You have to be willing to fail in this industry. And it's going to take a lot of failures to get to those particular wins. So definitely you have to have, you know, fortitude to maintain yourself in this industry. And so we've made mistakes and we've had some wins. So just like portfolio companies, just like startup companies, you may have to pivot. You know, when you first come out in the industry and you think, okay, I'm only going to invest in AI or I'm only going to invest in drone technology or I'm only going to invest in, we actually invest in weed. We invest in some marijuana-based companies. You know, those particular things might change over time. And you have to recognize, like, it might just either be a fad or it might, you know, be something that's kind of cool and you want to make sure that that's something you do continue to invest in. But the bottom line is you might need to pivot. Be in it for the long run. We heard about this is not an overnight success industry. You can be wildly successful, but know that it's going to take at least 10 years for a decent return. And as an angel investor, you know what? You're not going to get into every hot deal. There are going to be some deals that you're going to like just kick and scream and wish you were in it, and it's just not going to happen, either because the entrepreneur doesn't like you or you don't have the right connections or whatever it is. And at the end of the day, there's as much art in this as there is science. So just be flexible. Don't take things personally, I guess, Don't take things personally, I guess, if you don't get into every hot deal. And don't invest. This is the same thing that we've heard before. Don't invest in more that you're willing to lose. It's kind of like going to Vegas and you know you want to play all the tables. You know you want to stay up until like 2 in the morning, but don't do that if you're not willing to like, you know, be willing to risk a lot. And then also, you know what, you're probably going to see some hot deals and you're going to pass and then it's going to suck. So, for example, I didn't list all of them, but we saw Uber super early on. I was very lucky to get invited to this dinner. Jeff was there as well. Jason Kalkinas had a great connection with the founder of Uber and I had a great time that night. I had awesome experience and it was stupid. I could have easily invested in Uber, and I just decided to pass. I totally regret that decision to this day, but it just goes to show that you might be in the right place at the right time, and you still might make bad decisions. But on the other hand, you might make good decisions too. So just know that those things might happen, and you have to be okay with it. And be happy for others that did invest. You know, don't be, you know, like, oh, it sucks. I wish it was me kind of thing. So you should be happy for those that did invest. And then branding, lastly, must be consistent. You know, a lot of these big brands don't happen overnight. You know, you have to have a consistent message. Like, show up to all the events that you get invited to you know return those emails return those phone calls you know you can't just be like an armchair investor you have to treat it as a full-time job and then also something to keep in mind is that now that there are hundreds of thousands of firms how do you stand out back in the day when we started tens you know ten years ago or whatever there were only a small handful of micro VCs. Now there's a ton of them. So just be mindful of ways that you can stand out in the industry. And then I put this up again just to remember, like, these are things that you should think of when building your brand. And then I'm going to kind of speed through this because I realize I've probably been talking for too long. But if we were to go through all the different things that define brand, for example, it's trust, loyalty, opinion, identity, perception, and quality. Trust really starts with your team. And for me, I'm fortunate enough to have a great business partner. Pietro Dova, he has operational expertise. He's a finance wizard, which is extremely helpful when we're looking at deals and just managing cap tables and things like that my background sales by the way but it's good to have someone that is your partner that might have skills that you don't have that's what I was trying to say with that so I guess going back to the beginning like when you decide to go out and do your own thing define what your focus is and innovate often for our for our, we decided that we wanted to back entrepreneurs with an unwavering commitment to succeed. And for us, like we sat down, we figured out, you know, okay, what defines XG Ventures? I think that's a good conversation to have with either yourself or your founder and make that your moniker. And we basically invest in disruptive technologies in mobile, social, cloud, analytics. Those things can change, obviously, over time. And again, what type of firm do you see yourself as? Jeff mentioned Pre-Seed. Pre-Seed's become kind of a hot new thing. There's another firm named Canine Adventures. Manu Kumar, who's done a great job branding himself, is a Pre-Seed investor. So do you want to do Pre-Sed, early seed stage, follow-on? Some investors only follow on investors, so think about that as well. And then do you have the right mix? So, for example, are you an expert? Are you a generalist? Are you a tech person? Are you sales? Are you operational? What's the value that you can give back beyond just writing a check? And then are you former entrepreneurs yourselves? Like maybe you can walk the walk and talk the talk with, you know, the founders that you're investing in. Are you operators? Or sometimes, you know, you could be a former VC, someone that's left a venture firm and decided to go off on their own. And then recruit carefully and decide what your structure will be. You know, you don't want just a bunch of hooligans on your team. You want to make sure that you recruit folks that represent your brand and identity. And then a couple more things that I think are important is that you want to align yourself with complementary firms across the entire ecosystem. Build your network. I can't say enough about this. Networking, networking, networking. Whether you keep track on LinkedIn or your, you know, social media, whatever it is, make sure you keep in contact with the important people. And are you connected to make the right introductions when needed? I think that's super important. There's a lot of money out there, which is great if you're an entrepreneur. But at the end of the day, you know, you want people to help you when things are going bad, not just when they're going really well. So something to keep in mind there. And I just put this in here because we also do gaming technology. And noob is a reference to newbies, by the way. This I thought was kind of fun just to kind of break things up. So it's startup incubators, startup companies. We had a bunch of dogs going in and out of Google. But just to keep it bright and brief, like these two dogs are talking and this person's saying she's nice, but she's got to do more towards building her brand before I can show her loyalty. So something just to keep in mind, again, branding is consistent. And then these are things, you know, opinion matters. People talk. People talk in the industry. You don't think they do, but, you know but referrals are pretty strong here in the Valley. So just some things to keep in mind. Do you have that strong referral network? Can you be thought of as being top of mind? What's your reputation like? Do you have proprietary deal flow that maybe other investors might be interested in leveraging? Are you responsive? Do you have a personal connection? And lastly, I put this in here. Do you hustle? I think angel investing, one of the big things is the hustle. You've got to be able to make sure you're there at the right time. Okay, so lastly, identity, or second to last, third to last, how do you manage your online presence? You know, do you maintain a website or does someone maintain that for you? What's your social media structure like? Or are you stealth? There are some pretty cool angel investors that choose not to have any websites and they just do their angel investing word of mouth. And that's kind of cool in its own right. Are you known for quality deal flow? And then which firms or other angels would you like to partner with? I think that's someone or something important to keep in mind, you know, like what are the other branded firms that you like and can, you know, maybe share some of the same value systems? And is it coopetition versus competition? I think some of the best angel investors don't necessarily compete against each other. You know, like all boats rise at the same time with the rising tide. Like you kind of want to be in it with other people that can share your wins. And then perception, we talked about before. Are you attending the right events? I mean, obviously, we're fortunate enough to be here at Y Combinator. Are you going to the right Y Combinator events? Are you going to the other Accelerator events, whether it's 500 Startups? There's a bunch of them. Like, are you getting those right invites? Let's see. One thing to keep in mind is do you play well with others? Do you keep all the good deals to yourself? I mean, people talk, and if you're always known for hoarding all the good deals, that's not a good thing either. It's good to kind of share your deal flow. This works well for anything that you do with angel investing. Respond quickly, even if it's to say no. And then strive for consistency and excellence in everything that you do and be a trusted resource. And the last thing is quality. I love this quote from Henry Ford. You can't build a reputation on what you're going to do. You can say you're going to do these things all day long, but actually following through is another thing. So try to make investments that matter. Identify what quality means to you and your investments. Do you want repeat entrepreneurs? Do you want new blood? Do you want to invest in a hacker, a hustler? What's your sweet spot for valuation? Build a portfolio that represents you, that you want to be proud of. And I put this last thing in here, too. It says don't have any rando investments that you can't explain. You might think some company is cool, but you better be willing to explain it. Be responsive. Do what you say. Say what you do. Be respectful of other people's time. Know when it's appropriate to do certain introductions versus just filling in someone's inbox. So one thing that I always do is a lot of people will want introductions to folks that I know at Google or Facebook. Obviously, these are busy people, so I always like to ask their permission if they'd like an introduction before I just go ahead and introduce this person to them. So just little tricks like that. And then trust your instincts. That's the number one thing about angel investing. Listen to your gut. Nine times out of 10, it's usually right. And so in summary, think like a boss. At the end of the day, you're your own CEO. Be in it for the long haul. Start out slow. Build momentum. Build a reputation for the long haul start out slow build momentum build a reputation for the long term definitely be a resource have fun it's great if you can make money which is totally cool and lastly thank you so much and I wish you guys all the best okay we'll have a I again apologize for running late but there's a lot of great stuff here. We're going to do a quick Q&A, and then we'll move to our overtime with Ali Partovi. So I have a grand suggestion for you. The last of the super angels. Yeah. Because you're really one of the... The only one I can think of from the intro is to say not to raise a phone. Hey, it's Jeff. He's okay now? There's too much feedback. Hello. Okay. All right. Yes. Go ahead. I imagine that even though you've been in the industry a while, you're still constantly learning. Are there any things, you're still constantly learning. Are there blog resources, podcasts, books that you find helpful to constantly go to or learn from? So the question is, you've been in the industry for a while, but I imagine you're still learning. Are there particular blogs, resources that you all use still today? Yeah, I can think of one. I don't know if this is on. It's too loud. So attorneys can be your best friends as much as they can also be challenging to work with. But there's an attorney. His name is Yoakum Taku, and he's written an amazing blog the title of it i believe is called startup lawyer and he's written the blog in a way that is sort of like in layman's terms so it's very easy to understand and it's a great resource to go to as you first start out and it talks about what different term sheets look like and different valuations and so I definitely recommend that. So I actually trust the power of the network to deliver to me what is interesting or important. So I use Nozzle and use EZEL.com to sort of deliver the things that my network thinks is important and typically I see Fred Wilson or Brad Feld or Mark at Upfront posts and that's how I see what they're doing. As I mentioned, at investor.startupschool.org, every session has a resources component. There's some resources there now. We'll continually add resources like these. If you all send us to startupschool.ycombinator.com or to us personally, resources that you think ought to be included, we'll put them there and collect as many as we can. I have a question for you guys. You talked a lot about, Jeff, about portfolio construction. Andrea, you talked a lot about, Jeff, about portfolio construction. Andrea, you talked a lot about branding. Were these things that you have sort of figured out later on and said, ah, we need to do branding, or did you go, as you started thinking, both of you, about your brand and about your portfolio as you went into the game? So, portfolio construction is typically something that your potential limited partners, so people who want to invest in your fund, if you decide to do a fund, will literally ask you as the first question is, what's your portfolio construction? So I started thinking about retrofitting my, you know, Let me tell you why my portfolio is like it is. It was very deliberate. And because there was this kind of hodgepodge of investments, you know, a bit of gaming, consumer, SaaS. And then I came up with this, you know, six quadrant map where everything fit super neatly as if I had figured it out from the get-go, which I didn't. And then, you know, so it was retrofit. And then the map is actually super useful to show people what you're doing. And to this day, 14 years later, we actually have it. So that's for the portfolio construction. It was after the fact, after three and a half years, because no one told me it was important. And then the brand, well, we just rebranded, so it shows that the first one we had kind of sucked and took a while to actually fix it. Sorry. Hold your mic. Hold your mic, Tom. Andrea? Yeah, I think for branding for us, I think it was mindful from the get-go only because, like I said before, we're super fortunate to work at Google. And we didn't want to throw that opportunity away. So we just wanted to be respectful of that particular company. And then kind of use it as a leverage, standing, you know, bouncing off point for ourselves. And we were mindful from the get-go, making sure that we had the right URL. And we've also done some legal stuff around protecting the brand as well. But that was just us. We were super buttoned up about it. But then the rest of it, I think, is just, you know, you've got to follow through on it. I mean, you can create a website and URL and have all the right protections in the world, but I think it's just, you know, you, yourself, and your team, you have to embody the message that you're branding and portraying. And it sounds like you knew knew that from the very beginning as you got into the space the point also is that when we started there was literally no one doing it so there was no need to have a website and talk about your strategy and so forth because literally there were you know syndicates which were the 10 or 12 or 15 angels all in the deal you know support an entrepreneur and so it wasn't like today where you know give or take you have 600 sort of micro VC firms now so you need to be able to differentiate and point to all those resources because it's super important back then more questions yes back there So the question is around conviction. And if you look back at your best and worst investments, can you point out were you relatively high conviction on the best investments and low conviction on the worst investments or were your intuitions wrong? I think ideally you should only invest when you have high conviction because that's really what matters. Every time I made an investment where I had sort of a little bit of the spidey thingy kicking in where I felt there was something that may go wrong or whatever, I always wiped out so when you have doubt, when you think that the founder is not up to it when you think that the market isn't big enough or whatever just pass, because it's okay to pass on Uber, Airbnb, and LinkedIn, and Pinterest, and Wish, and everything. It hurts, but it's fine. But the point is, every time I've fucked that up, it was a wipeout. The total conviction fails, that's what you do as an angel. But what you don't want is to be sort of, hey, I have total conviction, but I'm just going to put a small amount, and then it's a success which would have a massive implication for you, but didn't because you put in just a small amount. So to me, ideally, I only invest now in things that I truly believe in. Yeah, I wish I had more intuition because it's kind of ironic. Some of our biggest winners, so to speak, have been those companies that maybe we've only put just a little bit in because at the time we weren't feeling as bullish. We're like, I don't know, I've got some question marks around that one. And then that ends up being the winner. We're like, damn it, why did we not double down on that investment? So if you're a poker player, you know that you look back at the hands where you made the wrong decision. You folded when you shouldn't have. You went all in when you really shouldn't have. And you look back, and some of those mistakes, you still did the right thing. It's just that was the way things happened. When you guys look back at your mistakes, do you think in retrospect that most of them were avoidable? Or is that just the name of the game? So for the companies that we invested in, wiped out, I mean, that's what happened. Sometimes we ended up sort of backing entrepreneurs that just didn't have the passion and the energy that it took to really sort of go for it. So we should have had a better filter, and hopefully our filter is better. The ones that we missed, I think, you know, I always joke about my entire portfolio because it's incredible, but the only one company I regret is LinkedIn because I don't have any rational reason to have passed on LinkedIn. I just chickened. Whereas Uber, I wasn't clear that the CEO at the time would actually be the right CEO, and he wasn't. So, you know, it is what it is. He wasn't once they were worth $50 billion. No, no, no. I asked Travis whether he was going to be the CEO of Uber, and he said no. And had Travis been the CEO then, not that I have any qualms against. So Ron Graves has done an amazing job. But I thought that it would take a Travis to actually get Uber off the ground. And, you know, I passed. And then a few weeks later he became CEO and I was like fuck and I couldn't get back in but I think for the ones where we put a bunch of money and then the company sort of had a good trajectory and then flattened I think it's always sort of tricky because VCs tend to invest on positive signs way ahead of the game because of the fear of missing out. And so you look at some of our companies which have gotten massive valuations and super large rounds or whatever, and now I've had the talk with those entrepreneurs and said, look, that round doesn't mean shit in terms of success. And you have to sort of drill it in the head of your team members because they will say, well, you know, we raised like a bunch of money and we're successful. No, no, it's just an enabler. And so being sort of super careful about not getting ahead of your skis and not seeing success before their success is one of the key risks we have. Yeah. You were explaining that we're a super angel now. What has been the biggest change in the sense of investing like a super angel? So I guess this question is, you're both sort of super angels, although Jeff has raised a fund which makes it a little different. What's the biggest difference in investing like a super angel versus like an angel? Well, I think it's not so much. The super angel just reflects the portfolios that we've built with our own capital, right? So, Andre has done like 100 deals, which is incredible. The key thing people expect from us as Uncork is to be sort of a lead investor. And so we take board seats, we write a million dollar check on average. And I think it's the responsibility which is now on our shoulders to be almost the ones in the syndicate that will also really look after and take care of the company. So I think this is when we became sort of professionals. That's what we do. If ever a company fails, it's partially on me as well. So I think it's this expectation that the market has on us now to sort of play that role. And to be honest, that's when entrepreneurs come to us as well. I imagine you construct, both of you probably construct your check size differently now than you did when you were beginning. How do you guys think about, I'm sure many people here are, as they mull over what their portfolio is going to be and how they're going to invest and how many companies are going to invest, and they're thinking of what check size should I write? And I think everyone's a little bit terrified of the phenomenon that Andrea mentioned, which is, okay, I have a chance to invest in Uber, and I invested $5,000. If I had just invested $100,000, it would have been very different. Michael Seibel actually said yesterday, write the right size check. How do you think of what the right size check is? Well, for me, I mean, when you you first start out I would definitely not recommend writing like a hundred thousand dollar check in your very first company because I think that's a little bullish unless you have some insider information and you feel pretty strong about it because it's gonna hurt and my first couple investments did not work out FYI but I think the other thing to be mindful of is now I mean if you're fortunate enough to take a look at what could potentially be like the cap table structure or however, you know, without even thinking about an investment in particular, probably $50,000 is the sweet spot to kind of make a difference. I think anything less than that, you might be lucky, but I think $50,000 is typically the sweet spot. So here is the brutal math, right? You're going to invest in about 40 companies per fund, and if you look at the distribution of returns, only four or five will matter. Only four or five will actually return the fund. And so, as Andrea said, it's walking back from the ownership calculation. So if we lead a round, we will take 10% of the company. So we'll write whatever check size it takes to take 10% of the company. So we'll write whatever check size it takes to get 10% of the company. So if it's a 10-post deal, boom, million dollars. And then we'll try and maintain that ownership as long as we can, series A, series B, in order to get to a terminal ownership when the company IPOs or sells of 5% to 7%, which means a billion-dollar 10% ownership, $100 million back to the fund equals fund back. And if you do that for five times per fund, you have a winner. Okay, so many of you won't even be thinking about funds, so you might think that what Jeff said isn't relevant to your particular case, but I would argue that it is. It's just what you should do. What you'll notice there is he's done the math, and you should do the math. So estimate how many investments you will make over a period of time per year. You know, as someone with LPs, he has funds, and he does it for that, but you can create your fund and say, I'm going to invest a million dollars, as Andrea mentioned, and out of that a million dollars, I'm going to do 20 investments. I'm going to do $50,000. And here's how many I think are going to make it, and here's how I think the one or two wins I might get there will be, and let me look at what's going to happen there and does that make sense? And understand your math very deeply and understand how you're going to think about that. And that will help you figure out what check size you're going to write. Maybe just a couple more questions here. I've already forced them to overstay their time here a lot. Yeah, back in the room. I'm wondering if it's a common practice at all or just a malpractice. Is that something that's an obligation for a, I'm going to sort of interpret this as, you figure if you invest in this deal, which you don't really care about, you somehow get into another deal. Sort of, I think the term he used was a gateway deal. Have you ever experienced that? So I think in the very early days, so we're talking 2004, 2005, when I was a nobody in the ecosystem and I had zero deal flow, I was trying to sort of figure out what you call gateway deals were, where I wasn't super convinced about everything, but everyone around the cap table was actually super smart and had access. And so I think the one gateway deal I did in the early days was Feetster, which was one of the very first RSS search engines where it wasn't a success, but the syndicate that was my first deal was Josh Koppelman, for example. And so getting in that deal allowed me to get to know a bunch of people. Would I have had the same outcome without Feetster? Yeah, probably. But I wouldn't do too many of those. Because at the end of the day, you know, it's your track record, it's your money. Sort of don't go into a deal if you think it's going to be a disaster, because it's going to be. Because if you think it's going to be a success. Probably will be a disaster, but you think it's a disaster and you don't even touch it. The best gateway deal, in my opinion, is a successful deal. It's true. Which one? Okay, one more question right here. Do you monitor your portfolio to look at factors which then lead you to seek out a particular type of investment or path that would otherwise be attractive? Do you actually not do deals based on how your portfolio is currently constructed? So, for example, would you avoid more meal deals? More meal deals if you've already done too many? Is that the question? Or maybe seek out investments based on the portfolio construction that you're looking for? I was just going to say, so for us, one of the industries that we used to like investing in was gaming, because we used to think like, oh, we had some early successes, Tapulous, a few other things like that. And then we learned later that the gaming industry is very difficult, and it wasn't producing the same returns that we were looking for. And so that's one particular industry that we pivoted from, just because there were a lot of signals in the marketplace that made it difficult. So that's something that we passed on. And then the other piece of that is like sometimes if we're overly concentrated on certain things in our portfolio, we'll stop looking at them. So for example, one of the things that we did do early on based on my background is advertising-related companies. And then we just got too concentrated in those. And they were, same thing, the industry, there weren't that many exits happening at the time so we thought you know what we're already concentrated in that let's wait and see let's concentrate on another industry those are great examples of straight of companies which are sectors which are challenging in terms of actually getting to an outcome I would say have your principles, have your investment strategy with the factors. Don't do too much backtesting because, for example, I'm going to say we're going to do 50% of Fund 5 in SaaS companies. I'd actually don't check whether we're at 50%. At the end, we're around 50%. We're fine. It's more indicative for the LPs. What you want to to avoid at least we do is any sort of overlap or competition between your companies so if ever you're in one meal kit company you shouldn't do another one because by definition you work with one entrepreneur you've made one bet he or she is your entrepreneur and that's it and you have to stick to that if you bet on the right horse and you win, awesome. If you're in one of the other 10, too bad. That was your bad. You want to be cautious. You don't want to be so fixated on numbers because remember, companies will have a mortality rate of 30, 40% between season series anyway. And so a lot of your positions will not be the ones you have at the end of the portfolio life. Jeff, Andrea, thank you so much for coming in. Thank you. Thank you so much. Once again, my apologies that this has run late, but you really do want to stay for my next instructor guest, Ali Partovi. We've known each other too long. Ali is the founder and CEO of Neo, which he can explain what that is. It's a very cool new organization. But he's also an entrepreneur, a social entrepreneur, who I admire a ton for the things he's done. We met, like I said, too many years ago when him and his brother founded Link Exchange. He's also the founder of iLike and, again, with his brother, Code.org. In fact, the quote I'd like to pass on from Ali is that both of us are engineers and coders and I really resonate with this, that coding is a privilege, but that privilege is not available to most Americans. He is doing more than, him and his brother are doing more than any other people in the world to, in the country to bring that privilege to as many people as possible. And I'm extremely grateful for you guys for doing that and I think it's going to make a big difference in our country in the future. So I thought, so Ali has done a ton of angel investing, and the reason I really asked him up here is because he's extraordinarily good at it. He has made as many great bets as anyone, and what we should try to tease out here for me is how the hell he does that. But I'd like to start off maybe talking a little bit about his experience as an entrepreneur. Maybe you can tell us a little bit about that. Start in the beginning, I guess, with LinkExchange. How old were you and what was on your mind there? Well, hi, everybody. I'm really very happy to be here. So yeah, my career started, I had studied computer science at college and I was working in a software company here, but I really knew I wanted to start my own company. And I had been evaluating different business ideas every week, you know, exchanging email with friends, considering what I was going to start. And then I heard that a couple of my friends from college had already started this company and were looking for someone to join them. And essentially, I think what was really the key to my success in terms of that company was that I was so ready to do it. I learned about it on Sunday. I met them at 10 p.m. And I had basically agreed to join them at 10 p.m. and I had basically agreed to join them by 2 a.m. that night. And at 8 a.m. the next morning, I told the other company that I was no longer working there and immediately began working on Link Exchange with Tony and Sanjay. Link Exchange, this was back in August 1996, and LinkExchange was the first advertising network on the Internet. There are a lot of things that, maybe not the most proud things to say, I helped write the first ad server on the Internet, so banner ads, a lot of those things. We coined the term click-through rate, so a lot of the early concepts in Internet advertising were invented by that team. Thank you so much. Yeah. But really, I'd say the most important thing I learned from being in a startup was the importance of people. In fact, after we sold the company, I was 26 years old when we sold the company to Microsoft, and I went from being financially insecure to suddenly being financially independent. My twin brother, Hadi, at that point was preparing to start his own startup, and he emailed me and said, hey, listen, I'm collecting advice from different people. Could you tell me what are the three most important things, three most important pieces of advice that you would give me as a new founder? And I said, that's easy. Number one, hire great people. Number two, hire great people. Number three, hire great people. And, you know, this had been something I feel very lucky to have learned when I was, you know, in my early 20s. And then through a series of, I would say, humbling mistakes, very lucky to have learned when I was in my early 20s. And then through a series of, I would say, humbling mistakes, I started also learning that it applies to investing as well. And that was kind of a little bit further down the line. So when you started investing, you didn't necessarily apply that same advice you had given to Hadi. We talked about one of the great characteristics of a great founder is that they're a talent magnet. But that connection didn't happen right away. Yeah, so I should start by saying I didn't think of it as, oh, my new occupation shall be angel investing. It was more like I had just come into wealth. I'd never, ever experienced having more than a small amount of savings before in my life. And I was a little kind of scared of what to do with it. What if I mess it up and suddenly have to learn what one does with wealth. And while normal people, I guess, put it in, I don't know, funds or higher investment helpers or so on, an obvious thing for me to do was that some of the smart people in my own network were starting companies. And so it seemed like it made sense for me to support some of them. But I would say I had a lot of hubris in that I was 26. I was clearly the best because I had just sold my company, and so I thought that I had this great business judgment. And so when some of the smartest people I knew were starting companies, I was applying my enormous business judgment to decide whether it was a good idea or not. And in hindsight, I might have done better to just focus on the fact that somebody brilliant that I know is starting a company and I should just invest based on the person rather than the idea. So to put in context, there was this amazing software engineer who worked for us at Link Exchange. He was actually a contractor. He had his own contract programming company of one person. Or no, he had one employee. But this guy was legendary. He was 22 years old. His name was Max Levchin. And when he started PayPal, the original idea was crap. It was an app for your Palm Pilot device to send money to someone else's Palm Pilot device. No one even knew what a Palm Pilot device was at the time. And needless to say, PayPal was an excellent investment opportunity, even if that original idea didn't make sense. And it's largely because Max was so smart. And roughly at the same time, one of my smartest friends from college, a guy named Craig Silverstein, basically Craig, my brother Heidi, and I were always competing for who was the best computer programmer. And he was an amazingly smart guy. And then over the few years after graduation, he had gone on to do, he went on to academia, pursue graduate school. I clearly had become the best because I was running my own company and sold it successfully. So when Craig emailed us saying, hey, everybody, I'm finally doing the Silicon Valley thing, joining up with my PhD friends, Larry and Sergey, and I'm going to start a new search engine. And I'm going to be the CTO and first employee of Google. I remember thinking, poor Craig. I mean, did no one tell these guys that there's already 10 other search engines? And, you know, I kind of deleted it. I don't even remember if I responded or not. Terrible mistake, obviously. But again, the same thing applies where it wasn't a great idea. I mean, if I told you today that I was starting a new search engine, you probably would not think it's a good idea either. And it wasn't very different. It was extremely, you know, Yahoo dominated search queries and there were several other companies. The point is that when a genius starts a company, it's probably a good idea to invest in it, even if you don't necessarily believe in the idea. We've heard a lot about that over the last three days. You will see a lot about this in your careers as investors that you know the right ideas to invest in are the bad ones that are really good and sometimes brilliant people have lousy ideas drew house his first idea was a test prep it was a lousy idea we didn't get into why combinator with that It was probably right of us to refuse it if he had gone down that path. Who knows where he would have been. How do you know when it's truly a bad idea that's going to crash and burn no matter how brilliant they are and when it's just you just sort of hold on tight and write the check and go with the brilliance of the founder. Well, you know, I think each person has different things that they're comfortable evaluating or investing in. But for me, I probably don't think of it about bad idea or good idea. I think of it more in terms of big idea or small idea. So if someone is pursuing something that could be enormously huge but has an extremely small risk of success, I mean, sorry, small chance of success, many people would say that's a bad idea. It'll never make it because 99% chance it'll fail. That might still be a good investment because, not because it's necessarily a good idea, but because it's a big idea. Whereas if something seems like, oh yeah, this is a sure thing, but it's a very small potential space, like an incremental improvement for a specific, you know, field that only a small number of people are in the market for, I would not say it's a bad idea, but that's not going to generate enormous returns. And so it might be a great investment for some people. It's not a great investment for me, and it generally doesn't fit the model for VC investing. So I guess I would say, sorry, I think what I would say is that for me at least, I care more about whether something feels like a really big idea. And to put in context, Airbnb, most people when they first heard about it, myself included, thought this will never make it. I mean it was just – it was crazy that ordinary people would open their homes and let some rando show up. It'll never work. Yeah. But in the off chance that it would make it, it was an enormous concept. And I would say it's better to bet on extremely audacious, enormous concepts rather than something that seems like a higher chance of success, but that would be small. So I'll coin something here. Look for the three Bs then when you're investing. You want a brilliant founder with a big idea that seems bad. And you'll be all set. Did you have any angel investors in Link Exchange? It's so long ago. This was more than 20 years ago. We're not counting. Yeah, it was truly friends and family. So know like there were distant members of my family and my co-founder Tony Hsieh who's now at Zappos had one or two family members who invested but I wouldn't have called them angel investors because they weren't people from they were the original angels they were friends that there was this didn't exist right best did not exist barely so my combinator obviously didn't exist. We got Ariel Poehler as a board member, and I think he put in a little bit of cash as well. So I guess he was an angel investor. But really, our first real money was Draper Richards, which was a VC run by not by Tim Draper, but yeah, by the sort of granddaddy of venture capital. They put in a small bridge round towards our Series A. I think they put in 300 grand, and our Series A was $3 million, and that was the only money we ever raised. I know it's a long time ago. Were there any lessons you learned from those early investors in Lake Exchange, either immediately or that later looking back helped you as you entered your investing life? Yeah, I think I would say I learned a lot from Mike Moritz. Mike Moritz led the Series A investment in us, and he actually loved our company so much that he would come by the office multiple times a week, which was insane. No VC does that anymore these days. But we were, I guess in terms of the investment side, I was impressed by the speed and decisiveness of the investment decision. You know, he, granted he had a little bit of extra information because he knew that Yahoo had just tried to acquire us and he was on the board of Yahoo. Right. And so he had visited us to evaluate us on behalf of Yahoo. And I think the things he was most impressed by were like subtle clues, not the actual business. So, for example, he arrived to meet with us at, I think, 8 a.m. And myself and one of the other co-founders were sleeping under our desks when he arrived. So, literally, I remember someone shaking me and me opening my eyes. And they were like, someone's here to see you. And it was Mike Moritz. And I think that was probably the single most important factor in the whole thing. He was like, OK, these guys are legit. But then after we declined the Yahoo acquisition, we got a one-liner email from Mike Moritz. Is that because you met me? Could be, yeah. We had a one-liner email from Mike Moritz saying, let's talk. I mean, it was two words. And so we went and visited him at Sequoia. And he basically, it was a very short meeting, and he just said, we are going to invest in you. It was something very, like, confident. We've decided we're going to invest in you. What we value more than anything is speed. And every minute, every hour, every day that you put distance between you and your competition counts. And so we're going to evaluate you by how quickly you're going to be able to accept our investment. And we... This, by the way, is what a Y Combinator, we call a ninja technique. There's ninja founders who can do this to investors, and there's ninja investors who can do this to founders. Not necessarily recommended unless you're very sure you're a ninja. If you have questions about whether you're a ninja, you're not. It's probably fair. So we at the time had met with five or six other VCs. I think we actually had an offer from another VC that was not one that we were planning on taking. But we left the conference, or yeah, we left the meeting room. We walked down the stairs. We huddled outside the office and then went right back up and said, okay, we're doing it. Yes, please, Mr. Moritz, may we take your money? Yeah, so you've heard, you are starting to hear themes here. There's a fair amount of repetition, and I consider this to be a very positive thing because these are things to pay attention to. And speed, right? How quickly do things happen? How quickly do they learn? How quickly do founders absorb? How quickly do they learn? How quickly do founders absorb? How quickly do they take action? How quickly do they build things? Hire the right people? Those are sorts of things to pay attention to. Some of them are subtle. Do they sleep under their desks? Some of them aren't. Investing's hard, right? I would say it's not for the indecisive. I'd say the common thread between several of these different little anecdotes that's just occurring to me is my decision to join LinkExchange was within hours I changed my career to join this startup. It wasn't because I'm an impulsive person. It was because I had- You knew. But also because I'd spent a year of preparation of evaluating business ideas. So when I saw this oneulsive person, it was because I had... You knew. But also because I'd spent a year of preparation of evaluating business ideas, so when I saw this one, I knew it was it. It wasn't the first time I thought about starting a startup or joining a startup. And presumably, same thing for Moritz. You know, he didn't need to spend a lot of time evaluating us. He, on a very intuitive level, felt like these are the right people to back and and like likewise for us by the time we met him we had had maybe three or four other VC meetings we've when you have a strong intuitive feeling you should basically go with it this this industry is not very sympathetic to people who hem and haw and take a long time to make decisions so you will find and you've heard this this, there's a nugget of incredibly important truth in this conversation we just had, and it's tied to what other people have said. When you begin angel investing, and I know many of you have already done angel investments, everything will seem good, and it will be really hard to make your decisions but if you can't make decisions quickly your chance of being a very successful angel investment investor are pretty small so you need to do enough of it so that you start to be able to you know you heard paul say it do or or or do not and do or do not rapidly. So this is the task in front of you, is to get to the point where you can and be comfortable, like you're playing poker, with shoving all in when you know there's a pretty good chance that they're holding the nuts. Or in this case, they're holding nothing at all. And when you shove all in, it goes away. But you have to create the ability to be decisive. You invest a lot with your brother. How does that work? Most angels end up being on their own. Sometimes people team up. Andrea has teamed up with Pietro. How does it work with Hadi? How do you guys make your decisions? Well, yeah, so I have a twin brother, Hadi, and we have very similar backgrounds. So besides being genetically identical, we both studied computer science. We both went to the same university. After college, he joined Microsoft. I joined Oracle. I had my own startup, and I sold it to Microsoft he then had his own startup, he sold his startup also to Microsoft, so we basically our careers kind of intertwined when it started coming to angel investing I think we have some minute differences you know I would probably say I'm a little bit more risk taking and he's a little bit more risk-taking and he's a little bit more guarded and thoughtful. But I would generally say what's applicable to everyone is that angel investing is better when you have someone else to essentially to double check you or to keep you honest because it's, I'd say it's a lot like falling in love. When if you fall in love with a person, you see only their positive traits, your's, I'd say it's a lot like falling in love. When, if you fall in love with a person, you see only their positive traits. Your brain, I think human, the human brain is literally designed to ignore negatives about something that you've fallen in love with. And so, you know, just like sometimes if you have a friend who's in love with the wrong person, you have to like tell them there's real problems with this person that you can't see, but trust me, I see them. I think that also applies with investing in a company, that if you fall in love with a company, you sometimes are unable to see obvious negative signals. And if a second person who is not in love sees them and you trust them as an equal and as an advisor, then you're more likely to make smart decisions. Does that slow you guys down, where you have to check each other instead of being able to say, I'm in? Or do you both independently sometimes just say, yeah, we're in, and then you sell it to your brother? Yeah, there's been occasions where I've committed on behalf of both of us without even asking him. But those are rare. And even those are ones where, I mean, usually they have to do with a person that we had already agreed that we would give a blank check to. So there's entrepreneurs in the past where we've literally said, anything that this person starts, we would back. And the person says, I'm starting something, and I'll take a meeting. And I say, OK, we're in, without having to call Heidi. But I would say that's not the situation I was just describing. I think in general, it is good to decide quickly, but I think having to do that basic checking with your partner, that's not a big enough slowdown as long as the discussion can be fast so you don't usually have to decide on the spot and we shouldn't it shouldn't be interpreted that we're making that claim you need to be decisive and you need to decide with alacrity that will often mean you know within days but weeks is too long. Weeks means you're going to miss out on the deal. So the way I interpret this, and Ali can correct me if I've got it wrong, is they talk that night after they've met with the company and decide the next day not, well, let's sit on it for a little while and see how it percolates because it's not going to happen. That's about right. I mean, the other thing I'd say is if you're taking weeks to decide, that basically means you've said no, but in a kind of douchey way where you haven't told them no, and all you're doing is hurting your reputation, because you'll get a reputation for someone who kind of, instead of rejecting people, just kind of, whatever the term is, ghosts them. So, you know whatever the term is, ghosts them. So I think you should do diligence. So it's just a question of if you see something you're excited about, get on top of it quickly. So the type of things, when I say the word diligence, it actually usually means reference checks on the people because I'm personally, I'm fiercely, intensely focused on the caliber of people. So I'll email Hadi, not that night, usually like that hour and say, hey, I just saw this company. I'm really excited about it. Blah, blah, blah. Here are the reasons I'm excited. Here are the things about the people. Here's the negatives. Sometimes he'll say this is terrible and he'll essentially kill the interest. But sometimes he'll say, yeah, it is great. Who do we know who can do a reference check? I know somebody from this place that would know this person. Reference checks are usually more effective if they're done sort of stealthily, meaning find someone you know who knows them. Yeah, the reference checks that somebody provides are obviously gonna be positive. No one, you know, they're gonna be their friends or their best relationships. So those don't really give much signal. But finding someone who was a previous manager, I'd say that's the sort of worthwhile time to spend before making a decision. Great. So I want to give the people who've managed to hang out in our great lateness here the chance to ask some questions and if we have some from online. But before then, I have a combined question. You've made a whole bunch of incredible investments in incredible companies. And I'd like to maybe if you can sort of give a little color on that and especially tie that to your new venture with NEO. color on that and especially tie that to your new venture with NEO and because I think you're thinking about those I think NEO is a almost a result of the process of figuring out how you made all these great investments that's the way I interpret it anyway so maybe you can just speak briefly to the to those two things sure yeah I'd say the hallmark or the sort of common theme in my investing together with my brother has been a strong connection with young engineers, you know, as young as university, and a very strong focus on evaluating engineers. And most people don't realize the most successful companies in America were all founded by computer scientists and not just the tech companies, but also companies like Netflix, which is really an entertainment company and started out mailing DVDs. Reed Hastie started a company, look it up, called Pure Software, which was an incredible company, and it was a software idea that he had. Brilliant. And Jeff Bezos is a computer scientist, and obviously Bill Gates and so on. So we really began focusing on people and evaluating companies, as well as then after investing in the company, helping them with recruiting people. So our four most successful investments are two were early stage and two were later stage. So I'd say the hallmark of the later stage ones is helping them with recruiting more so than discovering them. But basically they're Facebook, Dropbox, Airbnb, and Uber. That's a good four. Yeah, it's a good four. But the early Facebook, I clearly remember Hadi coming back from this meeting saying, I just met this company. They're working in a house. But this young guy reminds me more of Bill Gates than anyone I've ever met in my life. And he had this intensity and ambition to him, but with a level of belief and confidence that he was actually going to accomplish these things. And it was a very chaotic company at the time. It was like nine people. But we decided to get involved. And then we started pushing them to hire younger people than themselves, which is not what anyone else was telling them. They were average age was 21 or something. And we convinced them to bring on a 19-year-old intern. And I remember interviewing Stanford students for Facebook and helping refer people to join early Facebook. And that process of interviewing students led us to discover Dropbox. So there was an MIT student named Mackenday who my brother was – my brother interviewed him and sent him to Facebook but also asked him, who are the smartest kids in your class at MIT? And that's how we met Arash Ferdowsi, who was still enrolled at MIT and was developing Dropbox. We then had Drew and Arash fly out to the West Coast, and part of what our due diligence process had become by this point was to actually give coding tests to founders. And so we gave Drew and Arash technical interviews to see how well they can program and based on McInday's referral and the technical interview, we decided these two guys are the right guys to back. And it was a crowded space. Dropbox was not the first with its idea. It was actually had several other companies that were earlier than it. And then for the next several years after that, we helped Dropbox recruit people. We still help Dropbox recruit people, and this is 10 years ago. So helping companies recruit is the biggest way I've added value as an angel. And what ties it all together, though, is a focus really on young, great engineers. So NEO, my new company, is a community for awesome young engineers. It's focused on finding the top 10 or 20 most promising undergraduate computer science students. And so we identify awesome young engineers, include them in a diverse community of tech veterans, which includes this guy. And then we invest in startups that they start or that they join. Yeah, watch this space because I think some really interesting things are likely to come out of NEO. So questions for Ali? Anyone? If you're stunned into – yeah, please, Chris. How do we invest in NEO. How do we invest in Neo? How do we invest in Neo? I haven't had that question yet, so I'm not sure the answer to that. But I guess you can email me, ali at neo.com, and we can talk about it. Did you have a question back there? No? Just stretching? Yeah? Yeah? We heard a bunch about Parata. I'm curious how you think about setting aside capital for Parata, especially when you have some really big wins like Airbnb and Uber, and you want to exercise those rights to kind of double down. The question was, how do you think about Paratas, especially if you get in a great company like Airbnb or Uber? Yeah, if you want the honest answer it's really I still I'm trying to figure out how to do it well it's a it's kind of a mindfuck because you have put in money at an early stage it may be a small amount and now that investment is worth a thousand times more and you're wanting to celebrate it, but you also have the option to put in an enormous amount more money to get a tiny little bit more. And I think it's psychologically very difficult for humans to believe that something that has already grown a lot can still grow a lot more. And I've only made maybe two or three follow-on investments. One was Dropbox, where, I mean, this was, I can't remember the exact numbers, but it was something like I had invested with my brother 50 grand, and now to, you know, just for the follow-on, I think it was several million dollars just to maintain the stake. You know, it was just very difficult to evaluate this. Would I rather be selling or buying? But Dropbox is a very unique company, so we did do that one, and I think there's one or two others. But on the whole, I've generally not done follow-on. Probably would have been better to do it, but I've generally been sort of afraid because of the psychological weakness that I mentioned. Yeah. Any more questions? Yeah, back there. If the YCs and the NEOs and the female philosophers in the world are trying to sort of vacuum up all the promising young potential founders, where does that leave the kind of aspiring people in that? So the question is, to put it succinctly, aren't you guys taking all of our potential deal flow by vacuuming up all of the good startups, good founders, good ideas? So I don't actually know enough about the Teal Fellows to comment on that one, but my impression is that what YC is, YC generally thrives from having a very symbiotic relationship with angels and having great relationships with angels. And NEO is brand new, but my aspiration is similarly to have a similar kind of cooperative and collaborative relationship. For NEO, a few things are different. First of all, what I said earlier about follow-on investing is easier when you have a fund and it's set aside a certain amount for follow-on, and so I'm approaching it that way. It's different when it's all your own money and you may not have enough to do the follow-on or so on. But the approach I'm taking with NEO is aiming to take something between 2% to 3%, 2% to 4% ownership in companies. And on almost every different round, whether it's a seed stage or an A stage or so on, there's usually more to go around. And so in the seed stage rounds, there's very often, companies want to have multiple investors. They want to have different angels who bring different values to the company. And so, in the ecosystem, I think there's still plenty of room for individual angels. Yeah, thanks for that question. Actually, precisely the opposite is true, if you think about it. What both Neo and Y Combatator does is create opportunities for angels to make scads of money and to have very successful portfolios. We only invest at YC $120,000 at seed stage. That leaves lots of opportunity for other angels to invest. And so we're creating the, we're helping create the companies that you all should invest in. That's why we're doing this, by the way. As I said, I think it's great for the overall ecosystem, YC or not. Some neocompanies may well be YC and some not. If there's more great angel investors, it's great for them. But it's self-serving, too, because we want you guys to invest in Y Combinator companies. We want you guys to be massively successful because that means those Y Combinator companies are massively successful. So I don't think there's any such thing as vacuuming up innovation. Hopefully that's our goal is to incent more innovation. Can I just say, as someone who's been an angel investor now for 20 years, there are way more companies being started thanks largely to YC than there were before. And so, yeah, even if there was any vacuuming up going on, it's out of a much larger base, plus having a place to know where to find those companies so you know even if there were 150 companies if they were all spread around in different places and you didn't know what who was doing what you know just having the opportunities in a way that everyone can see them creates a lot of value awesome yep. Yeah. Yeah. Do you have an opinion or experience with secondary markets? So the question is, do you have any opinion or experience on secondary markets? I think what you mean is secondary sales where an early employee or former founder is selling some of their individual shares. I do have some experience with this. Probably wouldn't say that I have a lot of experience with it. I've experienced selling my own shares as an early investor, you know, at various points, companies that I've invested in. I've sold some or, you know, held some and so on. I don't think that I've...I'm trying to remember if I've ever bought shares from someone other than the company directly. If I have, it's failing my memory, but it's certainly not frequent enough to be a practice for me. That being said, I think it is actually probably a good investing opportunity and I have been thinking about, you know, dynamics that make sense for that because there are frequently early stage employees who have left or are about to leave and they want to cash out some of their stock and there's an opportunity for them to get money and for an investor to get that stock. So I'd say it is a good opportunity. I just don't have that much experience in it. Yeah, I think it's real. I think there was sort of a burgeoning number of those opportunities, and then a bunch of companies clamped down to control how much of their stock was, because companies want to control who owns their stock, and they lose control when that happens, but I do think that is still an opportunity. Okay, a couple more questions. Yeah. . So the question was, what are some of the tactics you that you can help bring in? So the question was, what are some of the tactics you've used to sort of expand the pool of talent as you help companies recruit to expand the pool of talent available to those companies? So, you know, this has been an evolving and growing practice that I would say has defined my career, frankly, of being in touch with and building a network of great engineers. I think everybody has the ability to cultivate a network simply by being diligent about staying in touch with people that they've encountered at various points. So for me, you know, I mentioned McInday. That's a guy who was a senior at MIT in 2006. I'm still in touch with him, even though, you know, after he left Facebook four years later, he joined a different company that I was an investor in. And after he left that company, he joined a different company that I was an investor in. And that's because my brother and I stayed in touch with him. And so simply keeping track of who are the exceptional people that you've encountered in your life and maintaining connections with them, and also asking them for introductions. So, you know, Mac and Day is the one who introduced us to Drew. How do you start that process is a little trickier. And frankly, you know, when I was starting NEO, part of the conceit was to try to find top engineers in universities across the country. I was very insecure about how the heck would I get started with that because I might have had a few connections at a few universities, but it's a big country and there's a lot of places where there are great people and I wasn't sure how to start. It's something I think I've done a great job with so far, but there's still a lot to do. Main advice I'd say is not to be intimidated and just, you know, at least start trying somehow. The tactic I used for NEO was I actually surveyed all the startups that I had relationships with and I asked them to tell me who the best engineers that they had in their internship programs were so you know so essentially that was the top of my funnel and I started from that okay if there's one more question okay way back there thanks I'm sorry, I didn't get that. . Is that a strategy about, did you ask about a strategy around exiting? He said, have you formed a strategy around exiting your positions? I think it would be probably inflating it to say that it's a well-formed strategy. I think everything is on a case-by-case basis. You know, generally speaking, there's not a lot of liquidity. So let's say if you made an investment and then you realize that it was a terrible investment it's very hard to sell it in the private market because you have to find a friend willing to buy it from you and you have to not tell them that you think it's a bad investment you know some friend right exactly and if you do that too often you know you won't have a lot of friends. Anyway, so, and you can ask the company to help it happen, but they don't want that. They don't want it to have a reputation out there that all these other early investors are trying to sell their stock at any price or whatever. So on the flip side is when there's a company that's doing well, which is a little bit, there's more of a market, and there's a lot of people who want to buy, you're again, I mean, I think it's like a classic sort of psychological challenge of is it better to sell or to hold? And in my personal experience, I've generally made the wrong decision every time. Every time I sold it, I should have held it. And every time I've held it, I should have sold it. So I'm not really one to give advice on this. The selling side is my Achilles heel, I think. So I'm just going to leave you now with the thought that, you know, first, we shouldn't feel too bad about the fact that he sold too soon. And, in fact, that has been a line that's been attributed to various fantastic investors throughout history. That, you know, what's the secret of your success? I always sold too soon. So, sell too soon. And thank you all very much for staying so much later than we intended. And how about a hand of, a round of applause for Ali. And thank you so much for coming. Thanks. round of applause for Ali and thank you so much for coming. Thanks.