 you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Congratulations, you've made it to the very last day of Startup Investor School. Thank you all again so much for being here and for being part of this. I am excited to provide the last day so finally you guys can get some of your questions answered about ICOs. So can anyone tell me where you're not supposed to park? There. Okay? There's parking, there's plenty of parking, there's fewer of you today so there shouldn't have, there should have been less of a parking issue I hope. I hope it wasn't too bad and I apologize for the issues with that. For people online, again, hashtag YCSIS for questions during Q&A, and there's still the Slack channel, of course. Today we'll try to stay more on time than we did yesterday. try to stay more on time than we did yesterday. I trust we'll be better. But the good news is, as you know, there's wine and beer. Wine? Do we have wine? Or just beer? Wine and beer and pizza afterwards, for those of you who are going to say yay, right? No sushi. There will be nothing healthy. We're investors. We can take it. So there was one note that someone had that I thought was a little interesting. And he pointed out that, Carl, thank you, that we haven't really talked about taxes. I can't imagine why we haven't talked about taxes. Well, taxes are an interesting issue when you're doing angel investing. Actually, if you're new to this, you actually realize it's a pain in the butt because when there's an exit, it's not like a simple thing. You have to do this thing called an installment sale because usually there's an escrow and you get paid and you have to figure out what your basis is. It's a pain in the butt. So I'm not going to talk about it. But there's also this other thing that's worth investigating called qualified small business or Section 1202, which can have a significant impact. In past years, it had a huge impact on your potential tax liability. So look it up. I won't say any more than that. Was there a question on taxes? Because I don't know anything about taxes. Oh, okay. High five. Just a quick summary of yesterday before we get going. So yesterday was our day of angelic advice. Whether you realize it or not, those people up here are amazing investors. So hopefully you paid close attention to their words of wisdom. I always do. I've learned a ton from all of them. Elad talked about how he finds billion-dollar companies, which, you know, if the game you're into is to make money here, actually, raise your hands if the main reason you're an angel investor is to make money. I think only like two or three of you. Raise your hands. Raise your hands. Like, none of you are here to make money. What are you doing here? Because maybe because you want to change the world and you care about things which which is great but you know investing in billion dollars companies gives you more fuel to do that so it's still a good idea um and he talked a lot about how he helps companies and one of the things you hear if you ask people again it is a very tight network if you ask people about a lot they'll all tell you incredibly helpful. And, you know, why does that matter? Well, that matters because everyone knows he's incredibly helpful, so you want him on your cap table. PageMon is kind of special. And if there's one thing you should take away from PageMon, other than the fact that T is really helpful, it's that anybody can get deal flow. Right? Anybody can figure out how to get deal flow. And getting deal flow matters because you have to have choice. Jeff talked about portfolio construction and asset allocation. And I think the takeaway for me there, what I've really learned from Jeff is that even, you know, most of us who are angel investors are not pros. We're amateurs. We're dabblers in the game. We're doing it for personal reasons. That doesn't mean you can't be professional and rigorous about how you go about doing this. And that's the right way to do it, to be organized, to think about your portfolios, to remember that it's a long game, and to pay attention, to pay attention to what goes right and wrong. He pointed out like, you know, his portfolio construction was ex post facto, right? He looked back and said, oh, yeah, I have a portfolio now. That's awesome. That doesn't mean you have to do it that way. Budgets matter. Check size matters. Sectors matter, et cetera. And then Andrea talked about personal brand and how much that matters. Do not ignore that. Do not think that every one of those folks isn't successful, in particular because they have fantastic personal brands. And I liked what she left us with, is think like a boss. That's back to what I was saying before about being professional and thinking through how you're doing this. And I think Ali had a little bit of a different perspective on things, which is interesting. He points out that so many of the great companies, huge companies, have been built on the backs by software founders who are software engineers. That's kind of interesting, right? I mean, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon, Google, Yahoo, Netflix, all of those, there's quite a bit of market cap if you add those up together. So it's something to think about. Thinking about, I guess we came up with our little aphorism at the end, which is you want to look for the three Bs, right? Brilliant founders in big markets with ideas that seem bad, right? So today's the conclusion of Startup Investor School. I think it's going to be a great day. We're going to start with Andy Bromberg, who's going to talk about early-stage investing in the past, present, and the future. He is the CEO of CoinList, the person who will answer every single one of your questions about the past, present, and future of startup investing. And who has said, for the first time, we can give someone a product without them considering whether they want it in advance. The best guerrilla marketing ever. After Andy, we're going to have Aaron Harris, who's going to talk about being good. You'll want to pay attention to that one. And then our final guest is a special guest, my friend Ron Conway, who's probably the most famous investor, angel investor ever. So please welcome Andy Bromberg. Thank you. All right. Good morning, everyone. Let's see if we get this clicker to work. Nice. All right. My name is Andy Bromberg. I'm the CEO and co-founder of CoinList. We are the platform where the best digital asset companies run their token sales and where investors like hopefully you all find high quality deals in the space. But that is mostly not what I'm talking about today. We're talking about the past, present and future of early stage investing. And we're going to start with some trends that we'll see throughout the entire history of early stage investing. And we're going to start with some trends that we'll see throughout the entire history of early stage investing. Move on to some history, the early days of venture, 1940, 1950, 1960, 1970, 1980, the Middle Ages up to 2000. And then kind of recent history and going all the way to the present and then going back to some trends and talking about that. I think it's really important to talk about the history of venture to understand what's happening today. A lot has happened in this space, and it is a relatively new space relative to other industries. We're talking 70 or 80 years old. And what has happened in the past really informs what's happening today, and you'll see a lot of the same trends surface throughout all of these decades. So some of the trends that we'll see over and over again talking about early stage investing. First, decreasing costs to start companies. 1940 was very expensive to start companies as we'll see. Today it's very cheap. That cost is constantly going down. Second, a decreasing cost to invest. For investors like you all or for funds, the cost to invest and the barrier to entry there has gotten lower and lower over time. And we see that happen over and over again in this ecosystem. And then the last is the arc of the market bends towards liquidity. And we'll see this over time, starting early and going all the way to now, that liquidity and faster liquidity is something the market's always pushing towards. Now, there's a caveat here, which is there are speed bumps in all these trends. And certainly in the last few years, we've seen the speed to liquidity go down. We think that's gonna revert back and we're gonna see that come faster again. And then the kind of mega trend that we'll see through all of this and all of these inform is more and more capital being available to startups. As it becomes easier to start companies and you see more and more companies being started and as it becomes cheaper to invest in companies and easier to invest in companies this availability massively increases which means more startups more people trying to change the world all the things we've been learned about for the past past few days so let's get into it 1940s to 1960s Jeff told me actually that when he talks about the history of venture capital he starts even earlier than this back around 1492 when as he says it spain vc with with partners isabella and and ferdinand invested in christopher columbus labs on a on a venture to uh to find a new world uh they got 90 of the equity in that company uh which is a great deal for them unfortunately for you all does not happen anymore uh But we're going to skip, you know, four or 500 years to the 1940s and 1950s when the first venture capital firms emerged. And these are kind of the two that we talk about most often as the earliest ones, J.H. Whitney & Co. and ARDC emerging in the 40s. And ARDC really had what we consider to be the first venture win. So they invested in Digital Equipment Corporation and returned about 500x in 11 years there. And that was the beginning of this trend towards our first kind of recognizable venture funds, what we think of as venture funds today. In the 1950s, 1958, we saw small business investment companies, which was legislation introduced by the U.S. government, which effectively pushed this forward. They said, if you want to start a company that's a venture fund, as we would call it today, we'll actually give you leverage. We'll loan you money to invest in startups and allow that to increase. And so that really pushed the industry forward way faster than it could have otherwise, because there just wasn't capital available at that point to invest in startups. And then, you know, as we look towards the early days, some names you might recognize funded around this time, Venrock, Greylock, Sutter Hill, Draper and Johnson around then. And at the same time, and we won't get into this history, the Valley was coming into its own. So we saw Fairchild Semiconductor. Some of the first Silicon Valley companies were started around this time. A couple other noteworthy things about this period. around this time. A couple other noteworthy things about this period. One, this is the first time we saw the 2 and 20 structure emerge. So 2% management fee, 20% carry. That hadn't really existed up until this point. And private equity firms, for the first time, started using that structure. And we still obviously use that today for a lot of venture funds. And then briefly talking about what these deals looked like. In this period, what we saw was that hundreds of thousands of dollars, which is obviously even more in today's dollars, was invested into these companies by the principals, by friends, by family, before it ever got to a venture fund. So we're not talking about having a product at the seed stage or having a really good deck or anything like that. We're talking about something being out in the market and making money on the basis of having a lot of friends and family and principal investment going in. So very high barrier to entry. What we'll see as we go through this is that that didn't change for 40 years. We saw that for basically the first 40 years of venture, you had to invest hundreds of thousands of dollars of your own money or scrounge it up from someone before a venture fund would invest in you. And that feeds into the trends that we were talking about earlier. So we move into the 1970s. Some more names that you might recognize here, KP, Mayfield, CRV, Seven Rose, and Sequoia, NEA, all founded in this time. They were different than they are today. In 1970, CRV was a $5 million fund, and KP was a $7 million fund. Those are smaller than most investments those funds make today in raw dollars, but that was the entire fund size at that point in the 1970s. We also saw the emergence of angels in the 70s. As a historical note here, we think the term angels actually came about in the 1920s, but it was obviously not in startup land there. It was for Broadway. The first angels were theater angels who were investing in shows on Broadway to get them off the ground and allow them to start to make money. But we saw technology angels emerge in the 1970s for the first time. And then some major companies in the 70s that you will certainly recognize, Apple, Genentech, Tandem, Cray, Compaq, EA. 70s to early 80s, all of these companies were founded and obviously still massive success stories today. We started to see more and more funds being founded as you can see here. A lot of that was because angels, which were emerging, were becoming funds for the first time. But that could only happen because there was capital available. What was happening in the 70s to make that trend start is that institutional capital was investing in venture for the very first time. Endowments and big corporations created a new thing called alternative assets that they were willing to put money into. And they were investing in non-traditional assets for the first time. That included venture. And so angels that had successful track records in the early 70s went on to found some of these funds on the basis of, for the first time institutional capital being being available to them moving into the 1980s I've got a few charts here actually courtesy of a great website called reaction wheel that I recommend everyone check out some really good articles about the history of venture on there 1980s was a boom time for venture capital. If you look at this number of funds by vintage year, on the left side you've got the 60s and 70s and then that first big jump, the third bar, is 1980 and then it's year by year after that. There were a few dozen funds in the early 80s. There were more than 650 at the end of the 80s. So that was really caused by this trend of more and more institutional capital being available and by this idea of just venture being an attractive asset class. It hadn't been around for that long and people were realizing that there were crazy returns available to them if they started these venture funds. And so this was certainly boom times. What's interesting here is that if you look back at kind of the mid-70s, not a lot happened. So we saw this early boom in the 50s and 60s, and then 72 to 78, there weren't a lot of good deals. It was kind of a low time for venture. And then as we moved into the 80s, some of those companies that I showed on the last slide started to get funded, the Craze and Apples and Genentech. It got really interesting again, and we saw literally hundreds of firms be started through the decade of the 80s. But at the same time, here's a chart of tech IPOs through the 80s, 1980 on the left, 1990 on the right. Early 80s, things look really good. 1983, we had more than 150 technology IPOs. And 1984, we were down at less than a third of that, and it stayed down there for the rest of the 80s. Deals were changing, and these IPOs skyrocketed. That fueled the rise in the number of funds, and then as things trickled down towards the late 80s, the market went down again. Certainly the stock market crash affected that, and the number of IPOs went down really, really sharply. Secular trend in the 80s was that you needed to invest earlier. So this is what I was talking about before, that up until this point, you had to invest hundreds of thousands of dollars of your own money to start a company. But now, there were 650 firms to get money from. It was competitive. Those firms needed to beat each other to the deal. Eugene Kleiner had this quote that it's now a matter of weeks or even days to make up their minds because if they don't, someone else will. That was not true for the first 30 or 40 years of venture. They could take their time. They could take months to sign on a deal because there was just not a lot of capital available. But as we moved into the 80s, that capital skyrocketed, deals became competitive, and funds had to invest earlier and earlier to get the returns that they wanted because otherwise they would lose it on deals and be left with the losers. In the 80s, you'll also see the market bounce around a whole lot. There was the rise of leveraged buyouts. A lot of venture investments were actually made in slow growth consumer brands for the 80s, which was kind of an odd trend that happened, but there was just so much capital coming into the ecosystem, it had to be allocated somewhere. And we saw it go into slow growth brands in addition to fast growth startups. And then of course, at the end of the 80s, the stock market crashed. And that kept things down for a few years. This is tech companies formed in the United States, 80 to 84, 85 to 89, and 90 to 93. Boom times in the 80s. And as we got towards the 90s, the stock market crash tamped everything down very, very aggressively. And we did not see a lot of companies get founded in the early 90s. But in the 90s, we did get software and services. And John Doerr funding Netflix and Amazon. And for the 90s, we did get software and services, and John Doerr funding Netflix and Amazon. And for the first time, we're seeing some of the recognizable software companies that we know today and the movement towards funding that from venture capital. To give you a sense of what happened in the 90s, in 1996, the venture industry as a whole had an AUM of about $12 billion. In the calendar year 2000, LPs put $120 billion into venture. So that's not that it went from $12 billion AUM to $120 billion AUM in four years. That's that the AUM was $12 billion, and then in a single year they put in 10 times that four years later. So massive boom times in the 90s in terms of capital availability, going back to that trend of more and more capital always being available to these startups over time. As we know, in the 90s, companies were getting backed because they could go public. We saw this path to liquidity start to increase and people trying to get liquid very quickly, companies starting, and we've all heard the stories, months or a year or two years later, going public. And that was a big part of the driver of this capital because they saw these immediate returns that they could put in. The structure changed a lot. Carry changed. Funds were getting 30, sometimes even 40% carry on these deals because there were liquids so quickly. And people couldn't put enough money into the space so the venture funds could start to do whatever they wanted and take a lot more of the economic upside. These were boom times, and there was a bust. And I actually won't dwell on the bust here. We all know about it. It's really not that interesting for the sake of thinking about the history of venture capital. These markets are cyclical, and we see that in early-stage fundraising and late-stage fundraising. But every once in a while, there's a bust, and there happened to be a really big one at the end of the 90s, early 2000s. And then we moved on. And as we get to the 2000s, things were okay, but not great in the early 2000s. You know, 2002 to 2009, it was about $205 billion invested in venture and about $220 billion returned. So not really the venture returns that we're looking for, although certainly some of those companies have since returned more capital there. But things cooled off for a little bit there in the 2000s. And then for the first time in a while, we saw the rise of some new structures, some new methods of funding, and a new wave of models. 2005, YC, this fine institution that we are standing in right now, and then 2006, Tech Stars, accelerators started to rise. And this contributes, again, to this trend of the decreasing cost to start a company, making it easier and easier to start a company, and there was certainly capital available for those companies. Obviously, around the dot-com bubble bursting, angels went away in a large part because most people lost a lot of money that they would have otherwise invested. But we saw the reemergence in the mid-2000s, leading up to 2008, and the recession, when, of course, that got stamped out a little bit more again. And this is a really important one for, and I think underrated in the history of venture capital, which is the rise of convertible notes, actually in a large part due to YC standardizing the terms and encouraging founders to raise money on convertible notes. Historically, all of these deals have been done with just equity, straight equity, selling preferred stock. But there are downsides to that, as I'm sure you've talked about this week. You have to close all at once. You have to go through this extensive legal process. You can't do these rolling closes and get things out there quickly. And YC worked to standardize these terms, and we saw the rise of convertible notes, 2005 to 2009, as more companies started raising faster. And the cost to start a company, again, went down thanks to that. And then super angels and micro VCs, soft tech. I know you heard from Jeff. SV Angel, you hear from Ron a little bit. Lowercase, Felicis, even seed funds. First round capital really came into its own in the mid to late 2000s. And this was, again, just more capital early on in startups' lives, making it easier and easier to start a company early on. Some more trends in 2010 after the recession, more angels, more seed funds, investing smaller and smaller amounts. At the same time, we saw seed rounds crest a million dollars for the first time and start started to be able to raise a really meaningful amounts of money from early stage investors often before they had before they had real real traction in the in the market We saw a little bit of a reversion to preferred stock little bit of a reversion to preferred stock, likely due to this increasing institutional capital at the early stage. In the earlier 2000s, most of the early stage seed capital was coming from angels who didn't really want to deal with legal docs on their own. They were just investing their own money. Now we started to see those funds that I mentioned on the last slide invest, and their preference was often for preferred stock early on. And so we saw this move back to preferred stock really just from about 2010 to 2013 there. And then as the markets pushed towards driving this cost to start a company down, platforms emerged for the first time. Really two categories here. You've got platforms like AngelList that connect investors to, or at least at that point connected investors to startups and made it easier and easier to raise capital, as well as easier and easier to invest in startups. And AngelList really democratized that process to a large degree, as well as perks-based funding. So Indiegogo and Kickstarter, making it so that without actually raising equity, you could raise early money, obviously. Pebble is a phenomenal example from around here that was able to really get this business off the ground without selling equity and raising enough money to do things like build hard hardware in a time when that really wasn't being funded effectively with equity rounds. And even a little bit more recently, going to the 2010s, in 2012, this is another underrated item in the history of early-stage fundraising. The JOBS Act and then subsequent legislation over the next couple years led to some really massive changes in the early-stage funding ecosystem. all of securities law and investment advisory law got much much tighter and much harder to invest in things as the government imposed regulation to avoid or attempt to avoid recessions like that happening again Except for venture venture is really the one class that got the exception to that you can argue whether or not that's because it was common sense in the government or if it's because the venture industry lobbied really effectively, but at the end of the day, the JOBS Act came out, and following legislation, and a few things came out of that. One, venture funds got this exemption from being a registered investment advisor, which made it much easier to operate a venture fund and avoided going down the path of that becoming really heavily regulated. We got general solicitation, what we call 506C offerings, where you can publish that a startup is raising on the internet and people can invest in that. Obviously, AngelList took advantage of that in a pretty meaningful way. 506B got further solidified, which is private, non-general solicitation fundraising and allowing that to be done in an easier fashion. And eventually, crowdfunding, what we call Reg CF, equity crowdfunding. So the Kickstarter Indiegogo model where anyone can invest in a startup but small amounts of money and really lowering the bar to becoming an angel investor, a startup investor, and allowing more and more people to get stakes in these early stage companies and again, making it easier for startups to raise money. Around here as well, Angelus got a no action letter from the SEC which made it much easier to run syndicates and do this general solicitation, but really the early 2010s and going all the way to now have been a boom time for angels and making it easier and easier for angels to invest in startups. We did see this speed bump of liquidity times increasing as startups got some leverage and realized they could stay private longer. We certainly think that's going to revert as we move forward. Speeding forward there. Let's see here. In 2014, YC created the SAFE, which I'm sure you've heard about, the Simple Agreement for Future Equity. And we got back to convertible structures. So we'd seen that rise of convertibles, largely thanks to YC, 2005-2009, reversion back to preferred stock. And now, with the standardization of this document, a real move back to convertible structures. And the vast majority of startups today raise with either a SAFE safe or convertible note, but using a convertible structure. And the core idea there is that, and the core difference, or at least one of them between a safe and a more traditional convertible note, is that safes don't have interest on them. So most convertible notes that startups raise on say that you get a percentage point or two of interest every year, and if your debt gets paid back or whatever, you get a little bit more interest. If you are investing in a startup on the basis of a couple points of interest, you are in the wrong game. And why? So you realize that, so this is creating accounting nightmares, there's no reason for this. Let's remove that term from this, let's build a structure that's convertible without it being debt, and be able to move back to this much easier, faster, lower cost solution for raising early stage money. And then the latest and greatest, 2017, really in its more profound sense, we saw ICOs, initial coin offerings, and I'll touch on them briefly here. We can certainly talk more in the Q&A after. But ICOs are an incredible trend for early-stage fundraising. It's this proliferation of companies going out that can raise money without meeting with people. And that's such a new concept. You heard yesterday about how to run effective founder meetings. This is a world where companies don't even need to do that. The cost to start a company is so low now that you can create something, put it out on the internet, and have people invest in it online without ever talking to those people. And that's not true in every case for every ICO and certainly many of them still meet with with high quality funds and angels, but it's this real move towards absolute democratization of investing in in early stage startups. And then I would argue that there's an even more recent trend than ICOs in 2017, which is everyone an angel. And there's a couple components here that I would talk about. One is ICOs. So certainly ICOs contribute to this idea that anyone can invest online in these companies and get access because you don't need the company to give you access anymore for a lot of these deals. They just fundraise publicly and you invest and you get tokens or you get SAFs or whatever you might be purchasing. So anyone can do it without having access to those companies. Second, platforms like Republic and top equity crowdfunding platform that allow actually anybody to invest in whether you're accredited or unaccredited in security sales online, again, thanks to the JOBS Act and subsequent legislation. And then things like this, that you all are sitting here right now, the idea that angels are getting educated and taught how to invest and learning and meeting each other and engaging in the community is a really new trend. Historically, that's been just word of mouth. You've known someone who's an angel. They've given you the tips. But we're seeing this move towards education, I would argue, probably nowhere better than here. And one more program to mention that I think is interesting is a program from a fund called Maiden Lane called Spearhead, which is giving founders education about how to become an angel investor and also giving them capital to invest, leveraging their investment. And I see real similarities between what's happening now with everyone being an angel and the earliest days of venture capital, which we were talking about earlier in the 40s and 50s, when now there's this flood of new money coming in, there's education becoming available, and there's leverage being offered to people that are good at their jobs. And so moving towards this. And the ICOs and everyone in the angel process really speaks to this societal trend of the co-creative process, that as companies are starting, they need help getting started. They need capital. They need advice. They need connections. And moving towards a place where angels and anyone can be helpful in that endeavor is certainly a big macro trend. One thing I would note here, just going back to the regulation, is that in the same way we saw the JOBS Act in 2012, I wouldn't be surprised if the ICO industry needs something similar, if there's a non-exemptive safe harbor or some legislation around codifying some of the rules and guidelines around ICO fundraising. So where are we now? What does the early stage fundraising ecosystem look like today? There's normal seed fundraising, which you've spent most of this week talking about. Mostly safes or convertible notes, raised from accelerators, seed funds, angels like yourselves. Larger funds with seed programs, usually call it a million to two and a half million dollar rounds obviously we see outliers on on either side of that as well and this is what we call what i would call normal seed fundraising but uh also this other thing uh token fundraising uh icos mostly raised on what are called safts simple agreements for future tokens you will note that that bears a real similarityTS, simple agreements for future tokens. You will note that that bears a real similarity to SAFTS, simple agreements for future equity. This document really modeled off the YC SAFE structure except for tokens instead of equity. Mostly raised from hedge funds, venture funds institutions, and again, angels putting money into these ICOs, but they're raising 10 to 200 million dollars. And so there's a question here of how we could be talking about these two early stage fundraising mechanisms where one is an order of magnitude or more money than the normal seed fundraising process. So we'll talk briefly about this and again happy to answer questions about ICOs in the Q&A in a little bit more detail, but what is going on here? It's very different from equity investing and you have to remember this. You own part of a network, not part of a company. And I'll talk about what a token is in a second here, but this is a really important distinction for a few reasons. One, governance. When you're an equity holder in a company, you're a shareholder. You can vote on what that company does, and you can be a part of that decision-making process. Not so for token holders, except in token governance mechanisms, but they don't own a stake in the company. Valuation is wildly different. We can talk a lot about valuation, how you value these tokens. It is not the same as seed fundraising. Obviously, if the normal seed valuation is $5 or $10 million and a token company is raising $10 to $200 million, those valuations cannot be done in the same way. The investment process, as I alluded to, is very different. All of a sudden, you're not going and meeting with the company a few times, going back and forth, sitting down, coming to terms and doing it, most of the time you're reading information online and then choosing to invest and sending them money. And so that's a very different investment process from normal seed fundraising. And the future interactions are really different in the same way. If you're an angel, you probably get pretty personal investor updates. And the founder might come to you and say, I need help with this or ask for connections. In a token world, they often have hundreds or thousands of investors. They aren't doing that for most of their investors. Maybe they do if you know them already and you've been a helpful angel to them personally. But if you're a normal ICO investor, you are not getting that level of interaction with the founders of the network that you invested in. And then last of all, exits. So you've talked about exits a lot this week. You know, you wait five or seven or ten or more years, and then you get a liquidity event. But with tokens, you're often liquid almost immediately. Maybe there's a little bit of a waiting period, maybe the network's not quite live yet when you invest. But at some point you're just liquid, and now you're holding a liquid asset often months or a year after you invested and The decision-making there as to whether or not you exit at that point or hold even longer term is very different from from normal seed Investing where you're locked up and you you don't have a don't have a choice We could take hours on on all these differences one last thing I want to say on the ICO front is People break down different categories of tokens differently, but I tend to break it down to three categories. One, protocol tokens. So this is an example this would be Ethereum where it's a platform that other tokens are built on top of. So its biggest value comes from being a place where other tokens use the protocol to build their own networks. There's application tokens which are those tokens built on top of platforms like Ethereum. An example would be Numeri, which is a distributed network of data scientists solving market optimization problems, but a very specific use case there. And then there's securities tokens or asset-backed tokens where you take an existing security, real estate or startup equity or something else, and you put a token on top of it that represents that ownership. I would say with ICOs, a word of caution. Be careful. It's a new industry. It's a year old, really. And prices are a little bit irrational, maybe. Norms aren't really set yet. And so, you know, the market's young and it should be treated as such. I want to talk about tokens really quickly. really set yet. And so, you know, the market's young and it should be treated as such. I want to talk about tokens really quickly. What is a token? And I'll speed through this here, but I think it's important to understand what you're buying when you're buying into an ICO. A token's an incentive layer on top of a network. So we like networks. Facebook's a network, it's a social network, it's a series of nodes that are connected together. a network. So we like networks. Facebook's a network, right? It's a social network. It's a series of nodes that are connected together. And now we can build an actual economic incentive layer on top of that network. We can layer markets on these decentralized networks. But what does that mean? So let's talk about an example, Filecoin, which was created by Protocol Labs, which is a YC company. And it was the first sale that ran on Coinless. We were actually birthed out of the Filecoin sale and the combination of Protocol Labs and AngelList, so we have some YC DNA in our company. So Filecoin tries to solve this problem of storing files. And the obvious solution to storing files is Amazon S3, which is I'm going to go, people want to store files, I'm going to go buy a bunch of servers, and then I will allow those people to pay me for storing their files on my servers. Great. But there's a couple things there. One is you might not want a centralized party storing files. They can censor what you're doing. They might go down. There's downtime possibilities. There's all sorts of reasons to not like centralized systems. And on top of that, we've got an Airbnb situation here where there's actually abundant unused resources for storing files. There's empty hard drives everywhere that aren't storing files and could be used. And so how could we try and fix that? How could we connect those two sides of the market? The simple and naive solution to that is put spyware on everyone's hard drives and monitor how much space they have and allow people to pay the centralized company to store files on unused hard drives. But again, you run into these centralization problems that there's censorship possibilities, that there's other potential downsides of having a central party, and people just don't want spyware on their hard drives. So the question is, is there a way, if Jeff has files to store and I have storage space on my computer to connect us in a trustless way without a central party involved? That's a hard problem because if Jeff has files to store and he sends them to me he needs to trust that I'm storing those files. And that's not something we want to build in. People don't always do the right thing. So if we build a trustless network and the way Filecoin has solved this, and I'll oversimplify a little bit here, actually a lot, it's a very complicated technical system, is with a really clever token and incentive model. There's two pieces of this. One is that when I offer to store files, I have to take some Filecoin and do what's called staking them or bonding them. So I take Filecoin and I put it out on the network. I don't give it to anyone, but it's basically an escrow. And I'm saying, I'm putting these out there. If I get caught doing something bad, not giving Jeff the reliability guarantees he needs, not properly storing the files, then I lose those tokens. So I now have an incentive to do the right thing and actually act in the best interest of the network. But now there's a second problem, which is how do you make sure I'm doing the right thing without trusting someone to verify that I'm doing the right thing because I would just always say, of course I'm storing his files. They're always available. And so the second element of the system is what they call the verifiers, or the miners. And so we could take all of you in this room, and you could try and check if I'm storing the files correctly. But how do we do that without actually giving you the files? So one example that you might do, and they have a way more complicated and interesting thing called proof of space time, which they use, is you could all go to Jeff and ask him, if we're storing text files, what's the 40th, 100th, 172nd letter in your file? And Jeff would say, it's B, it's A, it's C. And then you come to me and you ask me the same questions and I say I've got B A and C and Now all of a sudden when enough of you have done that we can get confidence that I'm actually storing the files correctly without you Ever seeing those files because we have this distributed network of verifiers and you now need to be paid for this work So the network mines new tokens It's's inflationary, and gives them to you for doing that work. And at the end of the day, we have this network of verifiers, of people with storage space, of people with files to store, who are all connected. None of us actually trusting each other, but all of us incentivized to do the right thing. And we've added this incentive layer on top of this network, and we've built a market on top of it. So now there's a value for these tokens, and as a result of the work that's being done in the network, and you can value those tokens that way. I can certainly get into that more in Q&A, but that is an example of what you're investing in. When you buy into the Filecoin sale or bought into the Filecoin sale in August, what you are buying is tokens on this network, tokens that will be minted and inflated over time for verifiers and tokens that will be used to transact on the network and tokens that will be used to stake as stores on the network. So really briefly, what's next, where are we going? And I think we just go back to the trends on this. First of all, continued search for liquidity, and I think the trends that we're seeing there are one, tokens, as we discussed, often instant liquidity or very fast and moving towards faster and faster liquidity there, as well as I think moves towards secondary trading and more and more equity secondaries being done in startups and the market pushing towards earlier liquidity. Second, the trend continuing. Companies are going to be cheaper to start and cheaper to raise for platforms, seed funds and angels, legal automation and standardization, Clerky, a great YC company that can help with that. And so we're going to see it be cheaper and cheaper for companies to start. And then as always, easier for investors to invest, tokens, Reg CF and crowdfunding, 506 BNC and education like we're seeing here. So these trends will continue as far as we can see, liquidity and cheaper and easier to start companies and raise for companies. That is it, early stage fundraising, past, present, and future. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. So, we have some time for Q&A? Let's do it. Because I think there might be a couple of questions. I see those. Let's hit it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. All right, questions about ARDC and the investing in the 50s? Yeah. Can you do both equity and coins at the same time? Yes, the question was, can you invest in both equity and coins at the same time? The answer to that is yes. And in the same way we saw structures evolve in the 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, we're going to see the structures evolve in the ICO market. There is, I would just say the priors are so low on us having figured out the perfect ICO fundraising structure already. We're a year into the market. There's no way we've hit the right thing. We're seeing a lot of investors push for equity in the company in addition to tokens. equity in the company in addition to tokens. You'll hear about the safe T, the simple agreement for future equity and tokens, or people just raising on safes or convertible notes or equity with conditions in the company governance that they will also get pro rata shares of tokens. But at this point, it really depends on the company. And investors don't have a ton of leverage at this point in the cycle. Right now it's very heavily weighted towards the companies, but more and more companies are allowing you to invest in their equity in addition to tokens or investing in equity and at some point that equity converting into tokens as the network goes live. First of all, well, the question was, should you, you know, you were told earlier not to invest in companies without meetings and even video calls are probably not enough. I am not telling you to invest in anything. And in fact, I would argue you should exercise real discretion when investing in ICOs, as it is such a new market, but it's a very good question. It's a trade-off. And at this point, the norms in normal seed investing are such that if a company is not willing to give you a meeting or a video call at the very least, there's probably something going on there. Unless it's the most hotly contested round in the world, the Founders' Zone of Time, that's a whole separate decision. If they're not willing to meet with you, that's a problem. In the ICO market, if you want to invest in the ICO market and you want to see some of the returns that are possible in the ICO market, it's just a fact of life at this point in the cycle. I think that'll change the early rounds it'll look a lot more like traditional seed funding than it does today but you know at some point you just have to make a decision as to whether or not the the upside of investing in the ICO market and the interest in doing so outweighs the downside of not getting the guarantees and the interactions that you want to have so Andy the purpose of the in-person meeting more than anything else is to get a sense of the quality of the founders. And how are you to judge an ICO if there's thousands of investors, you're not getting your in-person meeting, how do you make that call? If that's the main thing that's going to determine whether the company underlying the ICO is gonna be successful. Yeah, it's the billion, $10 billion, trillion question of how to evaluate an ICO. The first thing I would say is, one of the most successful angel investments in the past decade was investing in Bitcoin. And if you invested in Bitcoin when the first markets came out for Bitcoin in around 2010, 2011, you have made returns unlike almost anything in the startup ecosystem. You could not have met with the founder of Bitcoin because the founder of Bitcoin is anonymous or at least pseudonymous. And so you had to make a decision there on the basis of the future potential of the product. You know, at CoinList, when we think about evaluating these ICOs, we look at things like technology, we look at the backgrounds of the team, we try and interact with them as much as we can. And there's a different mode of interaction. So oftentimes these teams are available on their Slack channels or their Telegram groups, and you can try and interact with them. It's not the same as an hour-long meeting or a couple meetings or a video call, but you can get a sense for their quality. You can get a sense for their backgrounds. You can read and see if they've actually developed some meaningful technology. You can look and see how thoughtful they are about structuring the sale. And then, you know, in what's probably heresy to say here, you know, follow-on investing in the ICO market is a real thing right now. And, you know, the biggest funds will get access to these teams. If one of the top crypto funds is investing in a sale and they're investing $5 or $10 million, they are not doing that sight unseen. They are getting access. And so you can either try to get access through one of those funds or you can talk to those funds and get the sense of their diligence notes, or if you want, and I'm not recommending this, you can follow them. And what's maybe a little bit better in the ICO market about following good investors is that the time to liquidity is so much faster. So at the very least, you can get out quickly after the token gets liquid. That's not to say it's always going to be a successful investment, and the hype cycle is certainly high a U.S. thing, an international thing, or how should we think about how global this new trend is? Yeah. Hello, cyberspace. It's a good question. Right now, it is a very global phenomenon. So about as much money has been raised by ICOs based in Europe as based in the United States. How much was raised in ICOs in 2017? 2017 saw a couple billion raised in ICOs. That sounds like real money. It's real money. It is real money. And the speed with which we've gotten to the real money phase of this ecosystem is incredible. Bitcoin, the original cryptocurrency, is less than a decade old. Less than a decade old. And we have already seen hundreds of billions of dollars of value created, at least on paper, in this market. And billions of dollars of real capital put into the market. And so when we look at the scope, one of the beautiful things about crypto is that it is global, that anyone can start and anyone can send crypto anywhere. Now, that has been truly accurate in the early Wild West days of crypto and ICOs. As regulation starts to increase, we will see a lot more restrictions put on the fundraising and on the activity by these tokens. We could spend hours talking about the regulation here, but you need to follow it. And a lot of these tokens are securities, and you need to follow relevant securities law. But certainly it is still a global phenomenon, and we're seeing a ton of activity in Europe, in Russia, in China, and Southeast Asia. Awesome. More questions? Yes. Speaking of regulation, are there venture capital lobbyists? Are there crypto lobbyists? Are there venture capital lobbyists? Are there crypto lobbyists? There are absolutely venture capital lobbyists. The National Venture Capital Association, as well as even the Internet Association and some of the other entities out there, are very active in lobbying the government. And I would make a very strong argument that the Jobs Act and all the good that it did for the ecosystem in 2012 and a lot of the subsequent legislation came from really smart and aggressive lobbying efforts by very smart and connected people and on the crypto side there are some but not a lot you know's great organizations like Coin Center, which is not a lobbying firm, but it's an industry advocacy group based in DC that spends a lot of time educating our legislators and other folks in government, as well as a few lobbying shops popping up. But I think, especially given the attention given to regulation in the space, we will see way more lobbying happening in crypto and in venture capital over the coming years. Yeah, Susan. So the question is whether YC has considered modifying the safe to somehow take into account a future ICO by the company. ICO by the company. So we're thinking a lot about the implication of ICOs and we think about modifying the safe all the time. Unfortunately every single modifier we ever think about will require us to take the S away and make it an agreement for future equity but it will not be simple. And imagining trying to account for what an ICO might mean when nobody knows, that's the hard truth, is what does it mean to own equity and token? How do the two different asset classes interact, clash? What happens in conflict is unknown. So yeah, we think there's going to be evolutions and changes here, but we don't know what they are. So it's premature for us to make any changes. And actually, can I just touch on that really quickly to go back to the earlier question about equity and tokens? There's a question of in a token world, what does owning equity in a company mean? If the network's built well, we would argue that no value actually accrues to the company itself. The purpose of the token is to remove the centralized party. And so the company itself, the LLC or the corporation, shouldn't get transaction fees. They shouldn't get subscription fees. They shouldn't be rent-seeking on the network. So what that company becomes is an investment company. That company holds tokens. So Protocol Labs holds a bunch of Filecoin tokens. And in theory, these companies, as they develop the networks and release these networks out into the wild, sure, they may still help with ongoing maintenance of the network. They may help with contributing code to it, but they shouldn't actually be getting any rent from the network. They shouldn't be getting fees in any way. And so owning equity in the company, if they do a successful token sale, may actually just be the same as owning tokens, because the company's only value will come from, sure, a little bit from a small team, but then mainly from a holding of tokens that hopefully increases over time. So if I can translate, and when Andy's talking about the future might bring, maybe this means equity evaporates, doesn't exist anymore. So you can just forget about these last four days. Yeah. The question was, you know, where does the interest in the history of venture capital come from? And, you know, I would really answer that as why is that interesting and important? And I think it really goes to if we think about the token ecosystem right now, and I mentioned this a few times in the presentation, there are a lot of parallels to how this is evolving over time. And as you look at the rise of cryptocurrency funds, we're seeing a lot of parallels to the early hedge fund industry. As you look at the rise of token fundraising, we see a lot of parallels to the early fundraising industry. And I think the most important thing, as in all of these things, as we're all striving to do in this startup ecosystem, is to skate to where the puck's going. And if we sit and look at where things are right now, that's not that interesting. They're not going to stay there. That's not where the really successful products and investments are made. They're made by looking into the future and realizing how these things are going to be structured in a year, two years, five years, 10 years, 20 years. And I don't think there's really a better way to think about the future than by looking at the past and seeing how those trends changed and trying to think about how those might apply in the future. So for me, the interest comes from trying to understand how the venture capital industry is going to evolve, how the token industry is going to evolve, and beat people to the punch there by looking at the past and then thinking critically about the future. What an interesting conversation we've been having is about liquidity. And you mentioned George Dorio's, of ARDC's investment in DEC, which 11 years later yielded a 500x return. Interestingly, Dropbox is going public this year, just 11 years afterwards. And it turns out that the slower liquidity is, usually the bigger returns you get. So is it a positive thing that we have this trend towards faster liquidity? Yeah, I think it's a really interesting question. As with anything, there are pros and cons to the markets moving like that. And I would say there's even setting aside returns, because I think that the longer liquidity may lead to greater returns at the moment of liquidity. But if the company continues to be successful in the public markets and you wait out for a longer liquidity timeline, you may make just as much money as if they had stayed private that whole time. But there are other considerations here, too. And one of them, which is really big for token companies right now, is that do you want your big dollar investors to be liquid right after they invest? They might get out. And one of the greatest things about having early stage investors in your company is them supporting you all through the life cycle. In venture, it just so happens that that's forced. They don't have a choice. Once you invest, it's really hard to get out. And so you're stuck with the company through its ups and downs. And as everyone here has seen, companies go through ups and downs. And it's often worthwhile, not often, in the right cases, it is worthwhile to stick through those ups and downs, companies can be killed prematurely by early liquidity. And so that's what I would say is the real downside of this liquidity trend is if a company has a downtime, the market has a downtime, all of its biggest investors exit, that drives the price down, that can kill the company. And so what we're seeing in the token market is that even though tokens in general are liquid much faster Early investors are often being locked up now, and it's probably not for long enough yet It's for a year or two years or 18 months But I think we'll see a trend towards sure the market trend is towards liquidity the tokens will be live people can buy and sell And trade and move around But early investors will be locked up for a long time because you need that support and you need that base of investors to stay with you and support the company and in fact file coin did precisely that absolutely yep great example okay we'll take a couple more questions and we will have a quick break yeah it's another trillion dollar question. The question was not a problem right now, but how do you do a second round in the token world? I don't have a great answer for that question. Other than to say that the crypto world answer to that question, if I were to represent the whole community, is you shouldn't ever do one. And the reason for that is that, and this goes back to what I was saying earlier, the idealized kind of platonic form of an ICO is raise enough money to release this network. Release the network, and then it is not yours anymore. It is the world's. And you may be incentivized by holdings that you have of that token to continue developing it as a network developer, but you're no longer in need of the company having money. And so the argument that people would make is that in this perfect world, you just don't need to raise again. You raise enough to launch it. You launch it. You put it out there. You develop it over time. Or at some point, you might give up on developing it and someone else takes it over. Or someone might fork the network and start a new trend of it. But at the end of the day, you shouldn't need to raise a second round. The reality of the situation is that a massive number of token companies are going to crash and burn because they've run out of money. And their network will never really reach its potential. So perhaps there are ways where we can start to build entrenched fundraising, either scheduled or unscheduled, or allow for more support for later raises, but the ideal form does not involve ever raising again after your first raise. Okay, do we have a last question? Yeah. Yeah. So I was thinking that, you know, ICOs are sometimes similar to IPOs because the initial price is very critical to have investors happy, and they are investors happy in the company, not the insider. So I was wondering what good extrapolations you can take from IPOs to ICOs to make a good transition so it's not like something bumpy that gets in the way? to support the ICO market not causing crazy fluctuations in price early on. A couple pieces. One, and this is not what you were saying, but just to correct a misconception that other people have, I don't think ICOs are anything like IPOs. I think it's a really actually unfortunate naming convention that we have called them the same thing. They're much more similar to seed fundraising. That's why we drew the parallels up there between those two things. IPOs happen when a company is mature. They have a million disclosures to make. They've got revenue. They're supported. And that's just not the case with ICOs. They're much more similar to early stage seed financing of companies. Recognizing that's not what you said, there are still some similarities. And we've gotten really good as a market at stabilizing IPO prices for the most part. There are always exceptions through a variety of things, green shoes and different mechanisms around the IPO. I think that one piece that will be critical here is the divide between really two types of ICOs. There are sales of securities, which I would argue is almost everything that has been sold so far. And these things are illiquid. So most of these securities are offered under what's called a REGD offering, which is the same way most of us raise money, which means that the security is actually locked up for a year. So once you buy it, you actually can't sell it for a year. The network might go live and you might have liquidity at that point, but that's well after the ICO. And so in those cases, it's actually not a huge consideration. You buy once, you wait a while, and then a market gets created and you start to sell into that market. The other case is direct ICOs, where you're actually buying the token as it is live and then immediately starting to trade it. I don't think we figured out good mechanisms for that. I think there are smart things to do, reserving tokens, trying to support the market. I think there will be investment banks built around concepts like this. But I also think that that latter class is going to be so rare, because I think that what will happen is that the regulators are going to say, these are almost all securities. You can't just sell these tokens to anyone on the public markets. You've got to treat them properly. And when you treat them properly, there are built-in protections against price fluctuations early on because there are lockups on securities once you bought them. Awesome. Thank you so much, Andy. Thank you. Okay. 10-minute break. Grab some coffee. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Or they're still eating. I can hear them in there. All right. Who thinks we should dedicate more time to Q&A in these things? Anyone? Is it about right? Okay. I feel like that Q&A could have gone on for another 45 minutes easily. A lot of questions around ICOs in the future, but I guess that's natural. Okay, people are filtering back in. So, as we're concluding our course in startup investing, we're going to focus on probably the most important aspect of being a great angel investor and that's how to be good. Interestingly it's not a neutral question. It's the most important question that you're gonna have to ask yourself as you have decisions to make as you do investments and things happen. Things always happen, sometimes not great things. And you have to decide how you're going to act. My good friend and partner, Aaron Harris, is going to walk us through what it means to be a good investor. He knows a lot about this. He has started companies. He has been an investor himself many times, and he's been a YC partner for five years now. Is that right? Five years? So he has seen thousands of companies like the rest of us. Aaron, you should note, as you listen to him, has said that experts are generally right until they're wrong. Aaron? Thanks, Jeff. Thankfully, I don't consider myself an expert in much. I don't know if that means I'm right more or wrong more. But all right, so let's get this started. So when Jeff and I talked about this idea of doing a session on how to be a good investor, I thought about it for a while and realized there's actually a definitional challenge here in questioning what the word good actually means in the context of being an investor. And one of these is really obvious. You think of good investors, you think of people who make lots and lots of money, right? You generate returns. That's the goal of being an investor. That's what we expect when we hear someone is a good investor. But in startups particularly, there's another definition that I'd argue is actually more important than just generating returns. And that's in your reputation. Now, it seems a little strange that reputation is something we think about. Because when we think about investing, we tend to think about money because you give money to generate returns. That's how markets work, right? That's taking risk. But reputation actually drives your returns when it comes to investing in startups. And here's why. In public markets, it doesn't matter who you are. You can buy the stock. This is why a lot of hedge fund bosses are assholes. Doesn't matter. They make lots and lots of money no matter what they do. And so you hear ridiculous stories about the things that they do and the way that they mistreat people. I know a little bit about this because I worked on Wall Street for four years. And I can tell you that inside of a standard investment bank where many of my friends worked and where I worked, we never really thought of the people we worked for as people we liked or wanted to hang out with. They were simply good at doing deals and making money. And the same is true across the hedge fund world, but it's not true when it comes to startups. And that's because this isn't an open market. And the supply and demand of investors to good startups aren't matched in an open exchange. There is nowhere where you can go and buy access at your discretion in any startup that comes out of YC. Now, obviously, this is changing a little bit when it comes to ICOs, but even in ICOs, if you want to get in on the pre-sale or the pre-pre-sale or the pre-pre-pre-pre- pre-sale, you're going to have to know someone. And I've watched the way these networks have developed even in that space. And what you see happening is people with good reputations get the best prices and get in on the best and most oversubscribed deals. This is particularly true for hot companies, for the good startups, the great startups. This is a little tricky because as people have talked about this week, you don't really know who the good ones are ahead of time. And often a rush of investors towards a startup is a contraindicator of that startup's long-term success. However, you have to go with what you can see at any given point in time. And if there is a deal that you want to get into, you need to find ways to advantage yourself to get into that deal. And that's why you need your advantage when it comes to investing in companies. And I think that that advantage is primarily a function of how good your reputation is. And here's how this kind of works. Being good is directly correlated to your deal flow. So let's say you get your first investment. What's your job with that investment as an angel? Well, because, again, these aren't massive public companies that are immune to your help, aren't massive public companies that are immune to your help, your goal as an angel investor is to improve the likelihood of that startup's success. Can you help that company be really, really, really good? I forgot to advance that. Sorry. If you can do this, if you can help companies do better, the founders will talk about you. There just aren't that many founders in the world who are completely un-networked to their founders. So if there is a rumor out there that you're really helpful, then you'll get more deals. And if you get more deals, then you'll have more opportunities to help companies succeed. And if you help more, more companies succeed, then you'll see more deals. It's a recursive loop. As you do this more, you get better at it, and more companies talk about you. Of course, the opposite is true. If you screw this pattern up, if you're seen as someone who hurts the companies, then your deal flow will dry up. then your deal flow will dry up. I know this very, very well because I had investors who were not very good to me, who did things that I would consider to be bad. They don't get many invitations to demo day. I think Elad said yesterday that there was an investor who tried to screw him on his acquisition or his sale of his company. And Jeff, was his quote, I'll never fucking work with him again? Yeah. Founders have long memories. And startups are a small world. So remember this. This thing reinforces on itself in either direction. And it can happen very, very quickly. So if you want to do this thing, if you want to be good, if you want to increase the likelihood of success of companies and get more deals, how do you do it? In my mind, there are four places at which you have the opportunity to demonstrate that you are good to a founder through an investment. And those four stages are before you make the investment, which is in sourcing your deals, during when you're meeting the founders for the first time and negotiating the terms of your investment, as you transition from being a pursuer to an actual investor or from an investor into a shareholder, which is closing the deal, and then after the deal is closed, which is your ongoing relationship with the company. At each of these places, you have the opportunity to become helpful and to become good. So let's go through these one by one. How do you source deals well? What do you do? It's important to find out good places to locate investments. I highly recommend Demo Day. We'll bring out about 150 companies all in one day. You can do all of your sourcing for six months at one Demo Day. But you know that you want to try to get an edge in that relationship. And so what a lot of people do is they'll start emailing founders. They'll find a list. They'll find a founder who knows a founder who knows a founder who knows a founder whose brother heard that a founder was NYC. And they'll email that person. And maybe that founder won't respond because they're busy. And then the investor has a choice. And it's a pretty stark choice. They can either A, respect the founder's decision that they don't want to talk right now and politely email back and say, hey, I know you're busy. Is it okay if I keep following up and find a time when you're not so busy to meet? That's great. Or they can start pestering the founder. They can start stalking the founder and showing up at coffee shops. They can drive around the circle here on Pioneer Way hoping that a founder comes out of the building such that they can talk to them. These things have happened. We've had investors literally hanging around outside the door in the hopes that they'll find some founder that they want to meet. Don't do that. Not only is it creepy, meet. Don't do that. Not only is it creepy, it's unlikely to endear you to the founder in a way that will get you the deal that you want. And this is weird because you think, oh, I need to be persistent. I need to do everything. If I do everything, I'll win. I'll get the deal. That's not how it works. When the companies need capital, they tend to go looking for it. works. When the companies need capital, they tend to go looking for it. If you do end up sourcing a deal and you make that first contact and you go and have a conversation with someone, there are some pretty easy etiquette rules when you meet with a founder. The first is you need to respect their time. Do not ask for a three-hour meeting for a new company. If the founder says, yes, I can meet, keep it to half an hour. If the relationship is good, if things are going well, then you can make it more than that. If you go out for coffee or a meal, you pay. My friend, Baba Maraka, who was one of my angel investors and has also been a professional investor for quite a while, gave me a great rule of thumb. If an investor meets with a founder, the investor pays. If two investors go out, whoever has the higher AUM pays. I think it's a really great rule of thumb and I use it all the time. And you should do this because it doesn't matter whether or not the founder is wealthy or poor because it doesn't matter whether or not the founder is wealthy or poor. It doesn't matter whether or not the founder owns the coffee shop you're in. It doesn't matter if the founder bought really nice avocado toast and all you got was a cup of tea. You are trying to be good to this founder and show that you want to help them. And if you're discussing the idea of giving that founder $5,000, $10,000, $15,000, $100,000, what the hell is the price of coffee? A cup of coffee, right? Go the extra distance to show that you want to help that founder. They will remember it, and they'll tell stories about you if you don't. Now, meeting and negotiating. Again, respect the founder's time, right? So in that meeting, when you're talking to them, as that conversation develops, you're going to ask questions. And they're going to have the answers to some of the questions, and they're not going to have the answers to other questions. That's okay. In all likelihood, it's a brand new company that doesn't know all the answers. And if you expect them to know everything, you will be sorely disappointed. And if a founder says no to a question or says I don't know, it's okay to ask once or twice in slightly different ways to see if you can get the information. But don't ask 15 times. This is a way to certainly annoy the founder and probably push on something that they might wish they knew but might be completely irrelevant. When you're speaking to that founder, focus on the founder. This is really hard to do in something like a cocktail hour after demo day, where there's all these other founders going around. Any of them might be starting a multi-billion dollar company, and so what you do is you're talking to someone, you're talking, you're talking, who's that over there? I wonder, can I? And you sort of start walking away as the person's talking to you. This is just basic human conversation stuff, which people often get wrong. Don't do that. Focus on the person you're talking to. Give them your time because they might be an incredible founder and you might want to get into the deal. And they will remember if you were a jerk to them. Now, when you're discussing what it is you want to invest, you need to understand the terms. Understand what you're asking for, what it means, and what's okay. One of the challenges here is that a lot of this stuff is pretty opaque, which is why we're doing investor school. We're talking about what each of the terms in a safe means, what a cap is, what a liquidation preference is. By the way, don't ask for those in angel investments. I saw an investor just last week agree to terms with a founder, a standard safe. They were going through the motions, OK, sending back and forth, oh, we send you the SAFE, OK, great, great, great. And then the investor sent back an email, hey, just one last thing, and listed 10 demands, including a board seat, 2x participating preferred, drag along rights, right to block a sale, I can't remember the other ones. And the founder came to me and said, what do we do? We had an agreement for all this money. What should we do? I said, walk away. There are other investors out there, and this is a bad investor. And enter and tell your friends. It's a pretty open secret that YC has an investor database. This information goes into the investor database. And those investors don't get a lot of deal flow afterwards. When you're in this negotiation, it is natural for one side to have more leverage than the other. That's fine. That's how negotiations work. Understand where the balance of leverage is. Use it wisely. And don't push it too far. This is something that will come up again and again in your relationships with with founders. There are always unexplored pockets of alpha probably that you could get if you pushed beyond what seems appropriate. It seems like the right decision in the micro. It's the wrong long-term decision because you're trying to do more than one deal over time. And it is unlikely that any small thing you do, that a tiny, tiny bit more ownership that you get in one deal is going to be the difference between greatness and badness over the arc of your career as an angel investor. Always negotiate in good faith. If you say you're going to do something, do it. And if you are negotiating with someone, do it with the intention that you're actually negotiating for a reason. One of the worst things that investors do, and we tell all of our founders about this, is to avoid investors who are negotiating to the point where they can find out if other people are investing. And this is this weird thing. They'll say, oh, yeah, yeah, no, I want to invest in this term and this term. Oh, who else is investing? No, it's cool. No, just tell me, like, who else? Can you tell me who else invested? And they will only make a decision if they see a lot of other investors have come in. This is a terrible idea for two reasons. One, groupthink usually leads to bad decisions. And two, as I've seen again and again over the last few years, some of the best companies that have come out of YC's demo day have been the ones that didn't attract all of the investor interest. And it's the investors who think differently and go against the curve and find the things that they genuinely find interesting regardless of what other people do. They find not only companies that are going to do incredibly well, they get in at better prices and they get more ownership. And we remember that. We remember the smart founders. I look back and I say, oh wow, those guys are a lot smarter than I thought. And I start to send them things. I say, hey, you should look at this one. It's a lot like this other deal that you did. Other people are not smart enough to look at this, but you are. That's great. That's the position you want to be. And finally, when you do finish a negotiation and you do agree to something, I don't care if it's a handshake. I don't care if it's verbal. I don't care if it's in an email or a contract. Your word is your bond. This is something we drill into our founders. If you agree to something, that agreement is final. I understand that there can be circumstances in which something wasn't revealed, which there's material new information that changes the agreement. that's okay. But do not break a handshake. Everyone will know. It will not stay secret. And people will understand that you are not someone to be trusted and you're trying to start a trusted relationship. Let's say you finish negotiation. You're all done. Everyone's agreed. Everyone's happy. What happens next? As soon as you agree two terms, say to the founder, great, can you send me docs? If the founder is slow in sending you docs, follow up and say, hey, can you send me docs? If the founder is slow in sending you docs, follow up and say, hey, can you send me those docs? This is when it's okay to be pushy. You are a shareholder now, or you should be. Get the docs signed. And as soon as you sign them, send the wire. Don't even get up from your computer. Use HelloSign or Clerky or whatever you're using, sign and immediately open your Goldman Sachs wealth management account or call your guy at Smith Barney. Is that still a thing? No? Okay. And get them to wire the money to the account as soon as possible. And as soon as you do, call all your friends who also are trying to figure out where to put money and get them in on the deal. Bring a coalition, bring a syndicate with you, bring really helpful investors as the founder needs to say, hey, Aaron, thanks for letting me put $25,000 in. I know you guys are trying to raise a half million more. I have five people who I worked with or who I know who are awesome for your business for this reason, this reason, and this reason. They typically invest $25,000 or $50,000 a piece. Can I get them in? And if the founder says yes, immediately send the emails, make the phone calls, and bring those people in. Everyone remembers that. And this is the reverse of saying, hey, let me invest and I'll figure out money later. Like, I promise I'll find you some other people, but I'm not going to invest until they come in. You invest first. You lead and then bring the other people in. That's a great way to set off your relationship on a good foot. And then get the hell out of the way. There's this thing that investors want to do during a fundraising process where they've invested, they now feel as if they are the CEO. This is particularly difficult for people who have been CEOs or have run groups, and they say, oh, great, I've invested. Hey, I did a teardown of your product. It's broken here and here and here. Also, the way that you wrote this thing on your website is bad. I think the period's in the wrong place. And they just start sending emails. And these emails are incredibly frustrating because the founder is trying to close the round and get back to work, and now you're distracting them with all these things. My partner Dalton refers to this kind of investor as a human DNS attack, where they just like overload you with all these requests. And you can't do anything anymore because your email is just filled with all these requests and all these things and all these orders. So don't do that. Sit back and wait for the founder to reach out to you and get to the point where you can start helping. Because then, oh, actually, sorry, two quick stories because I think this is pretty awesome. The best transition from kind of wants to invest to shareholder that I have seen is an investor that comes to demo day who meets with founders, does a handshake on the floor, leaves within five minutes of demo day ending, and then literally sends wires from his jet as he flies home that night. And for a while, we thought this wasn't really happening. We didn't understand that this founder was legit. This investor was legit. And then a couple of our companies said, so this is going to sound weird, but we sent this guy a safe and he said he was flying out, but then we got the wire and we tried to respond and his assistant said, sorry, he's already he's in flight. He can't respond. We thought, whoa, this is pretty cool. This guy's really moving fast. He's following all the advice about closing quickly. That's great. The opposite is an investor I know of who committed to investing in a company, worked really, really hard. Oh, I'm going to be so great. That was a big check. I think it was a half million dollar check or something like that. I'm going to be so good for you and for everything. Okay, cool. Awesome. And then, you know, he signed the docs and then the founder said, hey, where's the wire? Nothing. Founder said, hey, where's the wire? Nothing. Hey, where's the wire? A week later, the investor got back, said, oh, I'm so sorry about that wire. My fund hasn't closed yet. Yeah, so can you hold that open for me? And the founder said, no, that's ridiculous. I need the wire. You agreed. I'm gonna kick you out. So the investor tried this, said, okay, hey, I'm sending you a check in the mail. Can you do me a favor? Can you put it in your drawer? Just hold it there for, I just need a couple weeks, and then you can cash it. Wow. This is terrible for so many reasons. One, never commit to invest money you don't have. Two, this person convinced the founder that they had the money to invest, and the founder stopped talking to some of the other investors that were interested, so didn't get the money from the investors that were interested, is now waiting on money that doesn't exist and can't really necessarily go back to those original angels that were interested because they're in this weird legal limbo where they signed the thing and now they don't have the money. That's a blacklistable offense, right? If you start making promises that you literally can't cash. That's a really good way to destroy your reputation. And there's the final part. Being good to companies on an ongoing basis. Now, a bunch of the other speakers over the course of the week touched on this, about the kinds of advice that you can offer, how you offer that advice, the cadence with which you do it. And I kind of want to keep this high level in terms of thinking about your relationship with a company as a relationship and as an ongoing relationship that builds and deepens over time. And this isn't actually going to be true of every single one of your investments. That's a fact. If you are lucky enough to make more than one investment, chances are one of those or many of those, you'll never hear from very much again. Hopefully they'll send you investor updates and there'll be things with which you can help. But some of these founders just won't need you or maybe won't believe that they need you. And it's not your place to force your way in. Founders will ask for help. Good founders will ask for help that they need you. And it's not your place to force your way in. Founders will ask for help. Good founders will ask for help when they need it. The founders who disappear on you, it's not worth your time to chase them because honestly, they're probably not going to do very much. We've noticed that founders who send monthly updates every single month tend to outperform founders who disappear for six and 12 months at a time. And it's this thing about understanding transparency and understanding how to keep a relationship going, right? Because this is a two-way street. And the founders who understand that tend to create better outcomes. Those are the people I like to work with. There are things you will learn as an investor that will be secret. Investor updates qualify as this. And you need to help a founder realize the difference between private information and proprietary information, or confidential information and proprietary information. Confidential information is revenue numbers, headcount, burn, balance. Those things are not to be published freely, but honestly, don't make the difference between the life or death of the company. You have no right to share them without explicit permission, but it's okay for a founder to share it for you, and it's okay for you to ask for that information. It's not okay for you to ask to look at source code on your own computer at home, potentially with a competitor over your shoulder. That's not okay. And so you shouldn't ask for it. And if a founder tells you they don't want to give you that kind of information, respect it. Part of that is knowing where you're actually helpful. I have felt this a lot where I want to help companies in areas I don't understand. And it's this overriding urge when someone asks you a question to answer it to the best of your ability. And it's very easy as the person with money and experience, maybe, to treat that as license to advise on any question that gets asked of you. Resist that urge. When you do not know the answer to a question, do not answer it. Say, hey, I would love to help you on this, but I can't. I really can't. I know some people who might be able to help. Would it be okay if I asked them the question? That's a way to help your founders. And when you do know the answers, help. Offer that help. Offer the advice. Offer to show up at the office and walk them through how to do something. Off offer to get on the phone. If you're not willing to get on the phone with a company that you've invested in, you probably made a bad investment or you've done a bad job choosing. So think about that and look at the ratio of companies you've invested in who you'd be willing to take a phone call from versus the ones that you're not. It's a good indication of whether or not you're tracking. you're not. It's a good indication of whether or not you're tracking. Above all things, and this is an important thing for me, and I think it's important in the ecosystem overall, is you need to be honest. A lot of founders will ask hard questions and your instinct will be to shade the truth. Or to say, hey, it's not going that bad. or, you know, don't worry, you shouldn't have hit metrics this month anyway because you had a cold, or, no, there's a totally fine way to fire someone. Founders sometimes need to hear hard truths, and sometimes you need to hear hard truths. And if you're not honest with them, they won't be honest with you. They won't tell you when they don't think you're doing a good job if they don't think you're doing the same for them. honest with them, they won't be honest with you. They won't tell you when they don't think you're doing a good job if they don't think you're doing the same for them. And as you are honest with people, honest and fair, people will respond to that and you'll get better information. This is something I always really appreciated from PG, where any conversation I have with him, he is completely honest with me about where I stand, what I'm doing right, and what I'm doing wrong. And because I know that he is doing it in our shared interest, it never feels like an attack. And there's, again, this thing you want to do where you're so smart, you have money, I'm going to attack you for this thing you're doing wrong, and I'm going to drive it home just to prove how wrong you are and how right I am. That doesn't help. People react super badly to that. Just be honest and direct and kind. And finally, respect the limits of your influence and your rights in any given situation. Don't go to the place where you start trying to make the decisions for the CEO when you're a small shareholder. Don't go to the place where you start trying to make the decisions for the CEO when you're a small shareholder. Don't try to influence the board. Don't go calling the board behind the founders back because you think they did something wrong. It's probably not your place, except in really extreme circumstances where the founder is committing fraud and won't admit it. Right? But proceed cautiously in any of those situations. fraud and won't admit it. Right? But proceed cautiously in any of those situations. There is one right I do want to mention that is often a point of contention between early stage investors and later stage investors and founders. I see this a lot because I run our Series A program where I take all of our companies that have raised seed capital and when they're ready for their Series As, we train them up and we try to help them raise the best possible Series A. And the point of contention ends up being around pro-rata rights. If you're not familiar with what they are, look them up. They're one of the most valuable rights that an early-stage investor can negotiate for and that an early-stage investor can get. And what they basically allow you to do is continue to invest in a company in future rounds such that you're not diluted, should you have the capital to do that. Now, this thing happens where in later rounds, founders will go out and raise money. And their later stage investor will say, well, you want to raise $10 million. We want all $10 million of that round. So screw your early investors. It's not great. And the founder gets put in a really rough position, especially if they didn't account for this ahead of time, where they don't know what to do. And it's very easy in this situation if a founder emails you and says, hey, I need you to cut back your pro rata rights because we have Sequoia on the other side or Excel or whoever, right? That's a lot of pressure. And usually it's actually coming from somewhere in the middle. A partner at Sequoia didn't say cut everyone back. It usually got lost in translation through a lawyer or something. And the founder interpreted it as a directive and they come to you. Understand that they're not trying to kill you. They're probably not consciously trying to hurt you. And be reasonable with them. But I think it's OK here to be firm and say, look, we negotiated for this. You agreed to this. I need my pro rata. Here's what it is. And if it's a situation where it's really too much, where they can't give you your pro rata, be understanding, right? And figure out a way forward that's good for both sides. And remember that every once in a while, you have to subordinate your financial best interest in a specific deal for the greater good of your long-term career as an investor. A couple things that good is not. Good does not mean smart in any way. It's not the smartest investors that make the most returns, and it's not the smartest investors that are helpful. Dumb money and smart money are kind of both money to founders. They make the machine go. And what I found is that investors who know which camp they fall into can both be good. So-called dumb money, you don't know much about startups, you don't know much about investing, but you try to be helpful, you give capital when it's needed, you're honest, you move quickly. That's a good investor in my book. And I would be happy to recommend that investor to any startup that asked. And I would be happy to recommend that investor to any startup that asked. Smart money, investors who have built that kind of business, know how it works, also really good, or can be really good. And both of those investors can be bad by violating some of the rules we've talked about. Good doesn't equal big checks. Some of my best investors as a founder were some of my smallest checks. They were the people willing to get on the phone. And some of my biggest investors, like Sequoia, were also some of my best investors. And it all depends on the relationship that you build and how you go about it. And good doesn't even mean famous. You have probably never heard of some of the best angels in YC companies. You've heard of some of them. Hi Ron. He's great, but there are also a lot of really, really great investors you've never heard of, who founders know about, who we know about. So don't read the paper and say, oh this angel was just involved in that deal, that must be a great deal, he must be awesome, she must be awesome, She must be the best. Remember that it's not about fame. It's about helping companies and getting into good deals. And if you do that, if you are in fact good, hopefully good actually yields returns. That's our hope. That's what we'd like you all to be able to do, and we'd like to be able to help you do that. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Okay. Q&A. Any questions? Yeah. Any questions? whether I'm a member of the board or not, it gives me a lot of comfort to know that at least things are being reviewed. Then beyond that, information rights, what do you typically see in terms of investor updates? I want to be in this as a monthly. I love it. But sometimes I'm worried they're spending too much time updating this. And then I have others that hardly ever send updates, and it drives me crazy. So what is a reasonable expectation of some kind of investment? And what should those investor updates? One sends every two months, but I never get any financials, or, you know, it's like chatter. So just maybe you can eliminate me on those. So what can you expect as... Sorry, you're repeating the question. Yeah. As an investor, what can you expect in terms of governance from a seed stage company, and what should you expect in terms of investor updates? So on the governance side, most seed companies do not have external board members. It's usually one or two of the founding team are kind of a board, and they approve things like options grants, but there's no one outside. And that's just sort of the nature of how the system works. I think that's generally good because I think that boards at that early stage are more hindrance than help. And I think that starts to change when a company has raised somewhere between... somewhere above $4 million of raise. That's when I actually advise companies to form a board, whether or not an investor has a specific right to do so. And what we'll do in some of these cases is we'll kind of form an informal board with them and I'll sort of sit down with them once a quarter to make sure things are on track. If there are things that you think are being done that are explicitly bad from a governance perspective, bring it up and discuss it. When it comes to investor updates, I actually wrote an essay about this called Investor Updates that outlines how to write a good one. It should take about 15 minutes if the company knows what it's doing. It's a little different if it's a pre-product versus post-product, but the basics of it, it should have revenue, it should have growth, it should have burn, it should basics of it, it should have revenue. It should have growth. It should have burn. It should have cash balance. It should have what they need, what's going well, and what they're struggling with. 15 minutes a month, maybe 20 or 30. Every month. As seed stage company? Because if they're not sending it that often, it probably means they're not making that much progress. There's a tendency where some companies will say, oh, well, I'm too busy. I'm going to do this every six months. What I tell them is the reason that's bad is their investors will forget about them. And it is not bad investor behavior to pride your founders into good founder behavior. It's not a good idea to exhibit bad investor behavior because your founder has bad founder behavior, but you are well within your rights to request your rights. There was a question back here. So the question is about reputation and how the reputation system, such as it is, sometimes breaks down. The questioner knows of investors who have actually treated companies bad but seem to have a good public reputation. How does that happen and what happens? I think no reputational system is perfect. Certain people with very bad reputations get i don't know elected to high office um no never happened never um i think that's true all through history honestly um i think that this space is fairly small and it might take a little while but that word usually gets around but there's always gonna be a few bad apples that I think will probably continue to squeeze into deals here and there the thing that you don't know and this is really tricky you have no idea from the outside what kind of allocation that person actually got so I've seen people put on their Twitter bios and in AngelList and on LinkedIn that they're investors in some wildly successful company. And I know that they bought a couple thousand dollars of secondary at a massive round. And they hold themselves up as being brilliant angel investors who caught it early. So, you know. investors who caught it early. So, you know. So, I actually think I know what happens there and it sort of sucks, but there is a power asymmetry and it is difficult for a founder to want to take on an investor who's more powerful than them even if they're being an asshole. And it sucks. One of the advantages of being a YC company, by the way, is that we stomp on people who do that. That we're lucky enough to be in a position where if you screw with one of our companies, they will tell us. And I don't care, even if you're Ron Conway, although he never does that. He never does, right? The most powerful angel there is and he never does. So, you know, that sort of reputation does spread throughout. And I would also argue that secondarily that it'll never last. Because eventually, people who are treating companies bad, like politicians who do bad things, it leaks out. That's because the information asymmetry that used to exist doesn't really exist anymore and we'll get out. . Sorry, you're a little quiet there, but you're asking about losing pro rata rights? Okay, so what happens when your pro rata rights are taken away from you? So Jeff and I have actually both written about this, are taken away from you? So Jeff and I have actually both written about this, because we both think it's a pretty bad thing when companies go back and reduce or remove pro rata rights from investors who have bet on them early. I don't have a good answer, honestly. I think it's kind of crappy. I think you should fight it to the degree that you can, but know your strength in any of those situations and know how to fight and how far to fight on it. And at the end of the day, you might get screwed here and there, and hopefully that is not the end of the story, right? you might get screwed here and there, and hopefully that is not the end of the story, right? So I think the message throughout this course and especially Aaron's presentation is don't be penny wise and pound foolish. If you've invested in a fantastic startup that you really want prorated and don't get it, you're going to make most of your money on the original investment. And so you should not ruin your reputation or in any way ruin the chance of that company getting a deal, if that's what you're being told. However, it sucks if you have contractual pro rata. The YC Safe gives you contractual pro rata in all rounds except the round that it converts in. And if the founder who you believed in before anyone else takes that away from you, well, that merits a conversation at the very least. And by the way, most of the time when this happens, it is not, the founder doesn't even know. And if the founder did know, they would put their foot down because it's up to them. I'll talk a little bit about this at the very end. But I do think that the process of taking away pro ratas that are contractually agreed is not a good one. I understand why it happens. It's complicated. It can be a pain in the butt to have to go around and figure out what your pro rata with everyone is, but if you contractually agree to it, well, that's a promise, right? And sorry, one last thing. For what it's worth, there is something we do for all of our companies now as part of our Series A process. We proactively model out for them what pro ratas look like and dilution looks like in different scenarios such that they can plan for it ahead of time. Planning is huge. The thing that we saw happen was basically people just didn't plan and they agreed to things. They didn't realize the implications. That's usually why a founder has gone back and tried to change it. If they have the information ahead of time, they will usually protect their angels. Not all cases, but most often. Yeah? question about prorata in terms of getting contractual agreement. Because it would seem a little bit of tension in some of the talks about don't ask for specific terms or side letter terms. But on the other hand, it's good to have prorata contractually. If someone's not using a safe, or maybe if they are, would you want prorata for those rounds that's hurting? So the question is, is it reasonable to ask for things like Parada in a side letter, especially if they're not using the standard safe, or even if they are using the standard safe, which does not give you Parada in the converting round? What's reasonable to ask for? Where should you draw the line? So this goes back to the point that I was making around during negotiation, know what the terms are, know what's standard, and know what your leverage is. I am of the negotiating school that it never hurts to ask for things that you think you deserve and you think you want, if those things are standard, right, or if those things are within the realm of expectation, and then know how much leverage you have to push on it. I think pro rata is a pretty standard thing. I think it's normal to ask for. It's something that I always want if I make an angel investment because I believe they're valuable and I think it's the right thing to do. That isn't true of 2x participating preferred. Now what I have seen is some angels will push their leverage as far as possible because they know a company is desperate and they'll get things. And okay, they won that skirmish, but they will lose the overall war. Yes? So the question revolves around the sort of two sides to the reputation market. One side is with founders and one side is with your fellow investors. And how to think about times when perhaps those two things might come into conflict. those two things might come into conflict. So I actually don't think there are that many situations where those two things are in conflict. I think one situation in which it could be in conflict is this thing you're mentioning, where a founder asks you for a recommendation to an investor and you don't feel so comfortable with it. So in a situation where you're not an investor in the company, you're just talking to them, you say, you know, I really only feel comfortable recommending companies that I invested in. That's the way you get through that one. And if there's a situation where a founder asks you for a recommendation to a company, you don't feel comfortable with it, this is the thing where I talked about being honest. Tell the founder, like, hey, while I would love to be able to recommend you, I don't think this is the right fit for this and this reason. And if they're super, super, super persistent, say, no, please do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, you know, there's introductions and there's introductions and there's introductions and there's recommendations and you know Make sure they know the kind of recommendation. They're getting and the kind of introduction and be honest with them about it Okay, we're gonna take one more question because unfortunately ron has limited time so this will be the last one Okay. I've been a founder in a startup where it's a 50-50 split, which never works. Eventually, that's how you get to the point where it's ground. There's a lot of feelings. I'm wondering what your perspective is on how a founder should come to investors saying, here's how we're organized and what we expect to see besides a handshake and a cap table. Having these things kind of laid out. Okay, the last question is kind of a tough one. Okay, the last question is kind of a tough one. It's about how founders communicate what their cap table looks like as they come and talk to investors and solicit investment. Do I have that right? So I think it's normal for an investor to ask for a cap table, and I think it's fine for founders to show them the cap table. That's pretty pertinent information because it's fine for founders to show them the cap table. That's pretty pertinent information because it... Yeah. Yeah. Oh, so asking more than just what the cap table is, but what sort of agreements you have. You know, again, this question sort of revolves around how much due diligence should early stage investors do. And I do think it's fair to ask about those things. I would argue, however, that it will almost never have an impact on whether you invest or not. argue however that it will almost never have an impact on whether you invest or not. The cap table might if you see wildly strange equity splits. It's not a good sign for companies. In fact, we ask about it at YC. We don't tend to ask so much about founder agreements because imagine like would you not invest in Dropbox or Airbnb because of some founder agreement that you found suboptimal? What you might do as an investor, once you're an investor, is give advice as to what sort of founder agreements might make sense in the future. In general, your due diligence as an early-stage investor is pretty limited. In fact, it's easy to tell a bad early-stage investor because they ask for too much. Say, what are your pro forma income statements over the next three years? Really? This is a company that is trying to figure out how they're going to get revenue. You're asking for the wrong information that will not help you make a decision. So, thank you, Aaron. You're welcome. Thank you. Okay. All right. So that was, I think, a fantastic survey, summary of how to think about what it means to be a good investor. Paul Graham actually wrote an entire essay about what it means to be a good investor with Ron Conway as the subject of the essay. The guinea pig. Yeah, he was the guinea pig. The guinea pig. Yeah, he was the guinea pig. And so this is, I think, for me, the perfect way to put a wrap on this course. I'm going to have a brief conversation with Ron. We'll take a few questions. Unfortunately, he does have a hard stop, so he can't hang around. And that's actually too bad for you because I've learned most of what I've learned about angel investing from watching Ron and from, and from talking to Ron, he's an incredible resource, but, um, the, there's a lot of resources out there that, that, um, that, that Ron points to for how you learn about doing these things. In fact, there's a reading list that will, uh, be on the website that, that SV angel and Ron recommend for how you learn about being an investor. Teach yourself. Yeah. So, Ron, by the way, since I've had a quote from everybody, I have a quote from Ron, too. Ron said, referring to entrepreneurs, you can't learn to be ambitious and driven. And I think that's something I keep in mind every time I talk to entrepreneurs. I think entrepreneurs can become more formidable. But if you say, ah, maybe they'll figure it out and they'll eventually work hard and be driven, that's probably not the investment you want to make. Ron has been angel investing certainly since before some of you were born and before I even thought about what an investment might look like. Can you describe a little bit how you got into that? Sure. I'm honored to be here. I'm born in San Francisco, raised my kids in Atherton, then moved back to San Francisco. But my first job was at National Semiconductor. And a few folks from there went off, and I went with them. And I was a founder at Altos Computer, and this was a microcomputer in the late 70s that was disrupting the mini-computer industry. All innovation is around disruption. You're disrupting somebody. disrupting somebody. And at Altos, our lead board member and investor was Don Valentine, who was the founder of Sequoia Capital. And he and I took a liking to each other. And after we sold Altos to Acer, Don suggested that I go observe board meetings with him, and start mentoring founders and consider angel investing. I loved the leverage of giving founders advice and, quite frankly, not having to do the work. I did the work at Altos and found out I didn't like managing people, that I was a much better mentor. And so in 1994, I decided to start investing full-time. And the best investment decision I ever made was to invest just in Internet software, which in 1994, that was two years before Netscape was even founded. And you see how huge the Internet software industry is today. What insight led you to that? I mean, everyone was investing their time in semiconductors and hardware. Enterprise software. Enterprise software. What strange epiphany did you have that made you go out in that sector? I teamed up with Ben Rosen, who was then the chairman of Compaq, I teamed up with Ben Rosen, who was then the chairman of Compaq, and all we did is think about what is the most disruptive industry on the horizon that will grow by thousands of percent a year. Whatever industry that is, that's the industry we want to be part of. So it was driven by growth, and growth is the lifeblood of innovation. A lot of folks here have asked questions about, like, so how do you start? How do you get deal flow? How did you guys, how did you in the beginning get deal flow? Well, it was easy because back then there was only about one Internet company being Back then, there was only about one Internet company being founded per month. So we would literally just look for any Internet company. And for two years, we talked to every single Internet company. How many other angels were there? At the time, I'd guess 50. But Ask Jeeves and PayPal were two of our first companies that we invested in that we got excited about. And that kind of started the trend. And an anti-spam company called Brightmail. I remember well. What was it about Ask Jeeves and PayPal that convinced you to write a check? For SV Angel, it's always been the character of the founder. We invest in the founder first, the idea second. So at each of these companies, we were impressed with the founder. Today it's intuitive within five minutes I can decide if I like a founder or not. Back then it took a one or two hour meeting to figure out, hey, do we like the character of this founder, the integrity of this founder? But it's the person first, the idea second. So I sort of had a question, you put a lot of thought into what you like in founders, and I know you guys have a whole thing on that. Back then, you had to meet for an hour or two. When you actually sat down, whether with Ben or all by yourself, and decided to invest, what broke the tie? What actually mattered the most to you? What probably mattered the most was the determination of the founder. Because these founders don't know it in the beginning, but starting a company is the hardest thing you'll ever do, and that's why we have such admiration for founders and are advocates for founders. And if a founder is determined, we know that he or she will see it through, that they will try every trick in the books to go build a big company, to recruit the best team. And that takes a lot of fortitude. So a lot of it is the passion, the leadership qualities that we think that they're possessing at this early stage, but it's really the determination and goal-driven. I think of Mark Zuckerberg. You met Zuck way early, right? We met Zuck when he was 19 years old the summer he came out here, that he was supposed to go back to Harvard and never went back. But he was very, very driven. And he was driven by metrics and user experience. That's all he cared about. He didn't care about getting his name in the paper or anything else. That's the type of founder that it immediately, hey, this person's going to build a successful company. By the way, since we do have limited time, if anyone has questions as we go along, feel free to just raise your hand and we'll try to fit it in. As you look back, you've made hundreds and hundreds of investments, hundreds and hundreds of decisions. Some have worked, some haven't. As you look back, without naming names, what have you gotten wrong? Like when have you looked at a founder and said, this is a founder in the SV angel mold and been wrong about it and why? Yeah, one thing that I want to bring up is keep in mind 40% to 60% of every company you invest in is going to completely go out of business. So failure is part of the angel business model. 40% is actually pretty damn good, right? That's our failure rate because we've been doing it for 25 years. In the beginning, your failure rate will probably be over 50%. That's part of the business model. Don't be upset about that. Lots of angels, after their first company goes out of business, they drop out, and I'm like, what are you talking about? Failure is part of the experience. So more often than not, just so we're clear, you will write a check and never see that money again. It's gone forever. Yeah. And that's why the winners have to win big. They have to pay for the losers. That's how it works in angel investing. Now I forgot what you asked. Yeah. So the thing is that there's a lot of investments you make where you say, you know, I took my shot. But sometimes you can look back and say, I should have known. When you look back at some of the ways maybe your criteria were wrong or you misread the criteria or something happened, what goes wrong? Out of 750 investments, we have three founders literally that were crooked. They belong in jail. So it's bad to invest in crooks. But that's pretty low. That's a pretty low number. But, hey, shame on us. A lot of times it's that the co-founders don't get along. We didn't predict that. And co-founders not getting along happens a lot. And co-founders not getting along happens a lot. And it's something that you really have to grapple with because usually one of them has to go. And that is very, very hard to predict. But we do look for that now that, oh, these founders don't get along. You know, we don't want to be the divorce lawyer again. How can you tell? If we're in the company, we are the divorce lawyer. We have to get involved. That's fun, right? Well, hey, you got to do it. It's part of the experience. How do you judge whether founders are going to get along or not? You just watch how they interact when they're making their first presentation. You watch very, very closely. Does each one have their own turf and what they like, or does the engineer, hey, that engineer, he's going to feel like he's a marketing guy someday. Well, guess what? That's going to be a problem someday for that company. It does sort of get to the point that it sort of behooves angel investors to see the whole team. For sure. At founding, it's easy. There's only two or three of them. You should meet everybody on the team. When I went to Google, I saw Larry and Sergey going in. That's who our meeting was. There's only five people there. But going out the door, the operations guy was Salar Kamangar. But going out the door, the operations guy was Salar Commengar. Salar Commengar is the guy who figured out the business model. He figured out the entire AdWords model. And at the time, he was an operations guy. And I stopped at the door. Well, I sat down with him. He was so young-looking. I sat him down. and I said, do your parents know that you're here? And he said, no. And I said, so where are you at school? I'm pre-med at Stanford. And I said, boy, are they going to be pissed. He never finished. He never got his degree. He's very happily retired right now. But, yes, definitely get to know everybody in the building. Get to know the assistants. Get to know the culture. If you can get a feel for the culture of a company, you'll feel much better about the investment. There's a question over here. Post-investment, what's the biggest value add that you personally provide? Okay, this is a good, I'll repeat the question. Post-investment, what's the biggest value you add for your portfolio companies? In addition to general mentoring, initially it's introducing them to other members of the team. Once a company starts to take off, they've got to hire engineers, marketeers, salespeople, and helping them build out that management team is the biggest thing you can do. If they need partnerships to build traffic, if they need distribution, then, you know, we introduce them to our contacts at Apple, Twitter, Facebook, Google. The beauty of it is a lot of these companies we helped get off the ground. So when we introduce somebody to Google, a lot of times we're introducing to somebody we placed at Google. But these founders need help building the team and getting distribution for whatever the product is, in addition to all the day-to-day mentoring that we give them. And most of the time lately, it's getting them to get off their asses and make decisions and execute. There's a wave of procrastination going on in startup land right now that's making me crazy. It's my pet peeve. So if you see a founder procrastinating, you can help them by saying, hey, you can't build a big company by procrastinating. You've got to make decisions, even if it means making a mistake, and move the ship forward. I'm spending a lot of time giving that lecture today. And some of them are companies with a billion dollars in sales, thank you. But they could be 10 billion if they made decisions quicker. Getting this right is really important. I remember I was actually doing this kind of talk with Ron once and someone asked a question and Ron demurred a little bit. So I was sort of saying, what would we do in this situation? I sort of explained, well, if you're running, I did a little office hour thing. If you're running the company, do this. And Ron sort of looked at it. And then, and after I finished my little spiel, he said, well, as an investor, I try to let my founders run the company. And I was like, oh, shit. In this case, I'm just saying run it faster. Make decisions. Right. So it's to be careful of the kind of advice you give because it is not your company to run. And if you think you're going to have to run the company, it's probably not going to do that well because you're probably not going to spend that much time with it. How did you get involved with YC? Funny enough, Chris Saka introduced me to Y Combinator. And it took some convincing, because I said, oh, another accelerator. But the first time I ever came to YC, which is now well over ten years ago, I looked at Paul and Jessica. It's all about the people. Everything in life is about the people. Paul and Jessica were picking well. They were screening founders well. And then the advice that they were giving them was so impeccable, you knew that group of founders was going to be successful. And that's why YC today is head and shoulders ahead of any accelerator. The second best accelerator is like 10 floors down, thank you. And it's because of the screening process and the advice and mentoring that they give founders. Did not pay him to say that. But it's true. So there's a bunch of investors here who, some of them have invested, some who want to invest. If you're going to give advice, one or two bits of advice to a new investor, say, for example, a child of yours was going to get into investing. Just say. What's the, and you had just a little bit of time here, what's the one or two things you would say? Well, I'm in favor of the portfolio approach. So pick a sector that you like. Hopefully it's a sector where you have domain expertise. And in that way, you can add value to the companies you invest in because you know the space well. And I would invest a little money, like $25K each, in five or ten companies so that you have a portfolio. Many, many angel investors that I know, they invest in three companies a year. One of them goes out of business. Oh, my God, one-third of the portfolio went out of business, this is the shits, I don't want to do it. It's because three investments isn't enough. This is very risky business. You should spread it across 10 companies, 25k each, hopefully one of them hits and then you're playing with the house money for the rest of your career, which is basically what I've been doing. Playing with the house money, that's the goal. Start small, yeah, and get to the point where you're playing with the house money. Hey, Ron, how long did it take you to realize you were good at this? What metrics did you look at early on to get you there? How long did it take you to realize you were good at this? What metrics did you look at early on to figure that out? How long did it take you, Ron, to figure out you were good at it, and did you use any metrics to measure yourself? I did not use any metrics. We just invested away. But within two years, Ask Jeeves went public, and Ask Jeeves was a big, big win. I guess that was a metric. Yeah, the metric is wins. There's no doubt about it. And once you get a win and you're playing with the house money, then you can focus more on adding value to founders, being an advocate for the founder, and not worrying about hits anymore. The lucky thing about SV Angel, every fund we've ever started, early on we've been able to identify a hit. And in our own mind, the investors don't realize it, but in our own mind, we know, hey, this fund's going to be okay. It's going to be a moneymaker. And let's just go about our business and add value and help founders. If you keep helping founders and building your relationship network so you can solve more problems for them, you'll be successful. You may have just answered this, but I want to return just briefly to what we started with. I want to return just briefly to what we started with. So Paul wrote, it's a theme we've come back to several times here, but Paul wrote the Ronco principle using you as an example, but to point out that actually being good wasn't a personality aberration, it was a strategy. What does being good mean to you? aberration it was a strategy what does being good mean to you well I think giving back to the community and being civically engaged is part of being a member of a community and today more than ever we should all be civically engaged while we're angel investing you can do two things at once, and you can encourage founders to be civically engaged, locally and now, especially nationally. And right now, I'm drawing a ton of energy from these students in Parkland, Florida, where we have a bunch of 17-year-olds who might change the country. Thank you. Don't clap the country. Thank you. Don't clap for me. Thank you for clapping, but I know you're clapping for these students. These students could change the country. They're going to have a ripple effect. I hope they solve the gun safety movement, and then they go solve a whole bunch of other issues because they're all going to go register to vote. And it's amazing and energizing. And we should follow their example. I hope everyone here is going to march on March 24th. I'm flying to D.C. and I'm going to march in the main march, but there's 500 other marches. And I love it that every student in America is talking to their parents and their grandparents about it and this is a real movement that could make change and slap some sense into Trump and his pals that is a tall order so every I'm sorry I don't have time for any more questions because Ron has to run but one last point. Everyone here is getting a virtual invite to winter 2018 Demo Days. It's still hard to say Demo Days instead of Demo Day. And 10 of them will actually get an in-person invite. Do you have any parting advice for people who are going to Demo Day? Take lots of notes because it moves really, really fast. But that's what I do. I sit up in front. I pay attention. I try not to get distracted. Even for the ones who aren't going to be there, just who have, like, all these companies to listen to and to go through. And you can listen to it remotely. Take lots of notes and be decisive. But I would try and pick a sector that you're going to be an expert at. Hopefully it's related to something you already know about. And go invest in that sector rather than investing hodgepodge, which is going to force you to try and become an expert if you're going to help these founders in in too many industries and one fascinating one right now is the whole blockchain crypto space if you're really ambitious focus on that as a sector because I think that is web 3.0. I think it's the next wave of the Internet, and it's pretty fascinating. But it's a hard one to get your arms around because it's work in process. You really have to study the space. Thank you so much for coming in with us, Ron. It's a pleasure. So Ron has to run. If you guys will just bear with me for, I have a couple of closing words and then we can start on the wine and beer. So just give me one sec. I'll walk around. I'll be right back. Thank you. you you So, the only thing between you and wine and beer is me. So I will be very, very quick. Awesome. OK. That is nearly it. I just wanted to do a brief recap of what we covered here. We started with, I don't know if I can't remember, it's been so long. Yeah, we started off with sort of why do this. I think Sam gave an awesome talk about why and what your motivations might be for investing and how you ought to think about what you invest in. And then we went and talked quite a bit about the mechanics of investing. You heard a lot about the safe. Can you guys raise your hand if you guys think you know how a safe works? Raise your hand if you've actually modeled it. So all of you who didn't model it but think you know how it works, you're wrong. Don't. And you know, that's actually not, wasn't our intention. The reason we invented the safe was because we wanted it to be quick and easy and cheap and simple. And it turns out every time you do anything, there are unintended consequences. So we've tried to remedy that by creating tools for people to actually understand them. So as you go and invest in safes, please, we haven't yet, but we're going to put up a spreadsheet you can use to model it. You can use AngelCalc, which is actually quite easy to model it. Understand what you're doing and how it works and how that conversion works. You can actually see the formula, do the math, figure it out. We will probably tweak the SAFE perhaps to remedy some of the confusion. We're almost 100% sure when we do that, the unintended consequences will make things even worse. So we're hesitating, but we'll probably do something. So we talked about how. We talked about how to get deal flow. We talked about how. We talked about how to get deal flow. We talked about how to go about starting. We heard a bunch from a variety of angels who became super angels, who became pros. Some of them are still angels. Some of them are still on their own, investing their own money. We talked about how to meet with companies, how to make your key investment decisions. how to make your key investment decisions. And we talked about how to do this in a serious way. This actually means a lot to me because I did this for years without being very serious or rigorous at it. And I don't really want to talk a lot about how much money that cost me. It cost me a lot. Talked about deal flow. And we talked a little bit about what today looks like and a tiny bit about what the future is going to look like. I personally believe that angel investing, the way we've talked about it here, will persist for a long time. Equity may evaporate and go away in the future, but it will not be the near, near future. I don't believe. I think ICOs will be part of our world and we'll have to factor that into our decision-making processes, but so will angel investing. I just want to repeat one of the key things that to keep in mind here when we talk about being good. Don't, I'll say it again, be penny wise and pound foolish. Be a good investor. And that sort of leads to sort of a final plea before we go do our networking and drinking and eating thing, which is let's all work together to make the ecosystem better, to add and keep consistency, honesty, integrity, and transparency in the system. We can all do our part for these things, and we all win when it's this way. There's a lot of reputational downsides to being a venture capitalist of any kind. And I believe that came because in the past it actually might have helped VCs to act badly. It doesn't work that way anymore. You've heard a lot about that, especially early stage. There's no win for you, and there's no win for the companies, and there's no win for the entire ecosystem. Aaron mentioned that we've both written about this. I wrote a post called Transparency in Startup Investing. And I actually think part of this was due to convertible sort of becoming the modus operandi of how people mostly raise early stage capital. But we don't have to give up on transparency. If your prerata is getting taken away, you should be told, so you can have that conversation. If you're getting converted, you should be told what your conversion price is and indeed how it was calculated, and you should check it. And you should be given the calculated and you should check it and you should be given the information you need to check it I've actually suggested a form the numbers aren't don't matter a form this is on the post that you can send when you get a conversion notice saying please sign these documents in two hours and you get 400 pages of documents send Send them this form back and say, sure, just fill all this out for me and I'll sign. And that's a legitimate quality request, high integrity request. I mentioned we're going to be asking for feedback on this course. I'm sure there's many things that we could have done much better and hopefully you guys will tell us what those are or just suggest to us when we do this again how we can make it better and more useful to you or to others. Lastly, I want to first thank all of the speakers who came and spoke to you. Even though it was some work putting this stuff together, they did all the hard work. The speakers from within YC and without, I thought they were great. And I also want to thank the team that put this together. Steve Pham here. Ramon Requero on camera. Ramon Requero on camera and our video guy Craig who can wave obviously it's it's actually more work than I thought it was gonna be to put two of course together and they were all fantastic so with that we are done. Good luck and good investing, and thank you so much for joining us. Oh, and Demo Day invites, all that stuff will be taken care of next week. Thank you.