 you you you you you The way the course is organized is there's a lecture and then there's a Q&A afterwards, so please hold your questions until the Q&A session at the end, unless an instructor explicitly says they want questions during their talk. until the Q&A session at the end, unless an instructor explicitly says they want questions during their talk. I will also take questions from the streaming audience. To ask a question, please use the Twitter hashtag, pound YCSIS, and we'll take as many of those questions as we can time-willing. So there's a mixture here of watching the class of accredited and non-accredited investors. For the accredited investors, as most of you know, we are going to be extending an invite to YC's Winter 2018 Demo Days, which are March 19th and 20th. It's a virtual invite and you can watch it online. But also, as a cool little kicker, we're going to invite randomly 10 of you to come in person to YC Demo Day, which is kind of a special occasion, and I hope whoever comes enjoys it a lot. So this is our first time teaching this class, hopefully not the last. We do ask you guys to give us feedback for what worked, what didn't work, what was too obvious or too subtle, what was missing. At the end of the class there will be a survey. I'll say this again at the end. But please do give us feedback. You can also give us feedback real time as you like. You can email me at jeff, G-E-O-F-F at Y Combinator dot com anytime you like. Honest opinions are great. I want to start off also by pointing out I won't be up here very much. It's mostly a bunch of instructors from inside and outside YC. They're all volunteers and they're very busy people and they've been gracious enough to donate their incredible experience and time to us. I'm very grateful for everyone who agreed to do this. Before we get started, I wanted to spend a couple of minutes talking about why we're doing this. How many of you have made angel investments before? Could you raise your hands? So you don't eat any of this crap. You guys have already done this. Okay, so there's a lot of experience, and we know there's a lot of experience, but we're doing this for mainly two reasons. You guys have already done this. Okay, so there's a lot of experience, and we know there's a lot of experience, but we're doing this for mainly two reasons. One is that angel and seed investors are a critical part of the startup ecosystem. It's the first money in, usually. It's what allows companies to actually take flight and become real, big, interesting, scalable companies. It's also a little self-serving. We think that more great angel investors, great seed investors are great for YC companies, and we hope you will invest in YC companies. We also think it's good for you, for all of you who have invested. You know it's an amazing way to get a window into the future, to be part of this future that founders are really creating, to get a window into what's going to happen. So it's all good. What are we hoping the outcomes will be? Venture investing has been around for, depending on how you look, hundreds of years, but really the kind of venture investing that we think of in Silicon Valley for the last 50 years. This guy named George Dorio made, he was a VC, he was an early VC of this firm called ARDC, and he made what we'd consider a seed investment of $70,000 in 1957 until this new tiny computer company called Digital Equipment Corporation, sometimes called digital, often called DEC. And that $70,000 turned into $35 million, which a lot of people found pretty interesting. That led to what kick-started an incredible flowering of innovation and a lot of wealth creation that has never seen the like in the world. And we hope that some of you all have that same experience, hopefully investing in YC companies. It's still possible. And there's lots of examples. And if we're lucky, some of the folks who are going to talk to you will give you some of those examples. So we also hope that you're all going to be better, smarter investors after this course. I'm sure that's why some of you are here. Some of you are here to get some of those insights, and I'm sure also that you will tell us if we achieve that goal. And lastly, we want to create a permanent repository of this information so anyone can make use of it in future years. So we hope to make the repository better and better. And in fact, if there's anything that you all, you can look at this online at investors.startupschool.org. And if there's anything you think we should add, just mail it to startupschool at ycombinator.com. And we'll look at it, and if we like it, we'll add it. Okay. Very briefly now. We have four days, about ten hours. So we can only cover so much. This is going to be about the fundamentals of startup investing. There will be a few deeper dives, but not that many. We want to hit the major points. Kind of like an investing 101, I guess. We will start off with fundamental questions of why, how, and which companies, and that's today, and then we'll talk about the mechanics of startup investing. Clearly, many of you know these mechanics, but I think we'll cover it perhaps in ways you haven't seen before. Then we're going to walk through some of the dance that you have to do to make your decisions and to talk with entrepreneurs and founders and figure out which are the companies that are going to be part of of your investing future. We're going to hear from a bunch of extraordinarily experienced and talented, at least by the results investors during the course and then we're going to complete with a little bit of context and a little bit of a look towards the future of startup investing. Startup investing has changed radically over the last decade and I think most of us expect a lot more changes in the next decade as well. In the end, we'll finish up with a conversation about the role that you all can and may want to play as you think about your role as an investor and what that means. I hope you all make it to the end. I think it's going to be really useful, and I think we have a pretty great lineup of instructors that will be very relevant and useful to everyone. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to our first speaker, Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator, who actually had the original idea for this course, so I'm pretty grateful for that. And he's also the man who has said, you want to sound crazy, but you want to actually be right. Sam? Thank you, Jeff. And thank you all for coming. This is, it's cool to see so many people in the room. So I want to talk about why, how, and what to do to invest in startups. I'm only going to talk a little bit about why, especially given how many of you already invest in startups. But I did do something to get ready for this class, which was I asked some of the best investors I know why they invest in startups. And I contrast... Oh, Stephen, I think it's automatically advancing. No problem. And then I compared that with reasons I've heard from other people who I don't think are as good. And I think it is worth thinking about why the people who have sort of done the best in the field, what their motivations are to invest. Perfect. people. And this resonates with me. The thing that I like the most about investing in startups is that it's energizing. I feel like I am constantly working with people that are not burned out on the world at all. They have unlimited energy. They have new ideas. And they have the sort of the beauty of inexperience. And they don't know. People that are doing things for the first time are willing to do things that anyone who has got a few more battle scars won't try. And that is incredibly energizing to be around. Help shaping the future was something that the very best investors said again and again. And as part of that, the leverage on time, the ability to work on multiple things came up again and again and again. Most of the time you lose one extra money, but occasionally you do get to make 100 or 1,000x, and that, for the same reason slot machines are so satisfying, is incredibly addictive. It's also satisfying because every once in a while, a founder of a great company who is now super famous will tell you, hey, that thing you did for me eight or ten years ago was this make- break difference to my entire career. And that's deeply gratifying. You get to be around some of the most talented people in the world. There is this sense of just endless optimism around the future that is really important to my own personal happiness to be around. And I haven't found that in too many other places in the world besides startup founders. It's incredibly humbling. I write on the back of every stock certificate on a Post-It note my confidence interval and what I thought was going to happen with the company. And you get used to being wrong a lot. And that framework, that mental adjustment that you're usually going to be wrong, that has been helpful to me in everything else I've done in life. You do learn a lot, though. And if you treat this as something that you're going to try to get better at and sort of deliberately practice, you can learn a lot and you can get better at this really quickly. All right, so now I want to move into the two main sections, the how and the what. The number one mistake that I used to make when I started investing was actually not a misunderstanding of the power law. The number one mistake was that I cared too much about what other investors thought. And the sooner you can free yourself of this, the better. I think this is a very common mistake that people make when they start investing. You get very swayed by what previously successful investors think. The first question that most people ask YC startups is who else is investing in your round? People totally outsource. I would say 80% of investors outsource 80% of their decision making to what other people think about an investment opportunity. But the problem is everyone does that. And so there's this weird schooling effect where a company gets hot for no discernible reason, or it fits a trend or whatever, and then everybody wants to invest in one company. And it's just because a few people decided they liked it. So the number one mistake I made was to be too swayed by what other investors thought good and bad about a company. After I corrected for that, the second biggest mistake I made was not understanding the power law. The power law means that your single best investment will be worth more to you in return than all of the rest of your investments put together. Your second best will be worth more to you in return than all of the rest of your investments put together. Your second best will be better than three through infinity put together. And this is like a deeply true thing that most investors find. And this is so counterintuitive that it means almost everyone invests the wrong way. So the question that you should be thinking about, the question that most people think about when they start angel investing is can I hit a bunch of singles? And in most other kinds of investing, that's the right way to do it. You know, if you're going to invest in stocks or bonds or whatever, that's how you do it. You just compound singles for a long time. But angel investing is a business of home runs. And you want to look for things that can be potential home runs. And we're going to talk about that again and again through this. But this is, I think, the most important thing to learn and the thing that most investors get wrong. So it's all about the magnitude of your biggest success. It is not about the failure rate. Most investors talk about their failure rate. Still, talk about their failure rate. Still, you know, when we have people that are trying to build angel firms come talk, the first question they ask is, what is your failure rate? What's an acceptable failure rate? Totally the wrong question. Totally the wrong way to think about angel investing. You can have 95% of your investments fail if one of them returns a billion dollars, and you'll be totally happy. And so this is what you want to think about. The first question that I try to ask myself when I meet a startup is not why is it going to fail. It's not what could go wrong. The first question is how big could this be if it works. Can I imagine this founder, this idea, this market supporting a, you know, massive, massive company. And then I think about all the things that could go wrong. But I found that if I thought about what could go wrong first, I filtered out the companies that could be giant. The companies that could be giant are at this intersection of sounds like a bad idea is a good idea. And because that's a very narrow intersection, and because they sound like a bad idea, the best investments are the ones that are easiest to talk yourself out of if you start off thinking about why they could go wrong. So then there's a question about how do you find these companies? How do you find the companies that can be the handful of companies that get started every decade that are responsible for almost all of the returns? Just to put some numbers on the power law, YC has funded I think around 1600 companies, maybe 1700. Our top five companies represent about two thirds of the value that we've created. And our top one company represents about one third. So this is like a, or nearly one third. So this is like this very extreme, very counterintuitive thing. All right, how do you find these companies? Another thing that I think is surprising is many of these companies that are sort of a generation defining companies are started by people who are out of network, who are not well known, who are not sort of the people that can you know, can start a company and get a bunch of press right away. And so you have to find these. And the best way to do that is from other founders. This is part of what we try to do at YC, is we try to get our founders to like us so much that they refer all of their friends to us. Because they say, you know, YC creates so much more value than it takes. You've got to go work with them. And we, this idea of like word of mouth as the way to find companies to invest in has been great. If you're just starting out, I think what I have seen the most successful angel investors do is just start helping founders for free, realizing they may not get to invest in those companies, but that they'll get the referrals down the road. And so much of this is about people connecting you to other people that you don't know. We talk about this at YC, this value of an open network. A lot of angel investors like to brag about how difficult it is to get a meeting with them, how you have to have a connection, otherwise they'll never take you seriously. And it's got to be from someone they worked with a bunch and you've gotta be well known and experienced. And we just make it really clear. Anyone in the world can go to our website, click apply. We try to respond to emails to people that email us. We take people seriously that have no personal brand, no reputation, no network. We ask people that are in our network to connect us to the most promising people they know that we don't already know. But this idea that we're available and we're open, I think this was in the two or three most important secrets of YC. This was something that we did that was really different. Other people hadn't done it before. In fact, people bragged about the opposite. And we went totally the other direction, and I strongly recommend this. Be open to that random email that comes in. Be open to the introduction of someone that on paper doesn't seem like, you know, that there's someone you wanna meet. Nine times out of 10, you waste your time. That other time makes it totally worth it. So one big shift that's happened in the last 10 years, I'd say, or maybe 15 even, is there are now way more people that want to invest in good startups than there are good startups. And so founders have really become in the driver's seat. Founders of good companies have a lot of choice when it comes to investors. And founders talk a lot now. The network has gotten big enough that the asymmetry that used to exist where investors had a lot of leverage is gone. And I don't think it will come back anytime soon. Your reputation matters a lot. It is way more important to your future success as an investor that founders like you and say, that investor did the right thing by me, than it is that you squeeze out, you know, a few drops of juice from a failing company. The number of investors that I have seen do incredible long-term damage to their reputation by fighting over the carcass of a company that was never, because of the power law, going to matter to them anyway, but try to get out, you know, $10,000 or whatever from a dying company, if you're playing the long game, that's not worth it. Reputation, especially reputation when a company is going badly, is super, super important. And I think that is the secret at this point in sort of 2018's Silicon Valley to win deals. The thing that we tell founders to do and the thing that founders do anyway, when they're trying to choose between a number of investors that all want to invest in their company, is they do reference checks on you, just like you do on them. And more and more, the thing that I have seen founders use as the criteria to make the decision about which investors to work with is what the other founders that investor is funded have to say. And so I think this will continue to be important. There are other things you can do, I think. Helping before you close the deal is good. Deciding quickly, being clear about your reasoning, being responsive, being available. All the things you want from a founder, those all help too. But this reputation of being good to work with things you want from a founder, those all help too. But this reputation of being good to work with, that goes a long way. And people remember that for a long time. The other question I get all the time is, how do I get a good bargain? Like, how do I get a better term than everybody else? We recently had a company. They had,'s say 10 investors that were going to join their seed round. Every one of the 10 had asked for advisor shares. Every one of the 10 had said, well, unlike all those other investors, I really do work super hard. I'm the only investor in a round that usually gets advisor shares, so you need to give me to participate. And everybody asked for this, all 10, same thing. I'm the only one. I need advisor shares. And I think, you know, a lot of people are just looking for a good deal because valuations feel high. They have felt high to me for eight, seven years now. I went back and looked at my best investments. The very best investments I've made have either been a ridiculous deal because no one else wanted to invest or a deal that felt incredibly expensive. The more I was willing to sort of overpay in my mind to invest in a company, often the better it did. And especially when I felt like I was getting screwed. If it was like a huge up round three months after some other round, it was painful. I did it anyway. I think because the companies that work sometimes work so fast and you're anchored to like what a fair deal is, you got to watch out for this. But my experience investing in startups is my best investments with one or two exceptions have been the deals that felt the most expensive to me. And the one or two exceptions were companies where I understood something that no one else did, and thus there was no competition whatsoever. Other than that, the companies where I tried to value invest have not been as good. I think value investing is not a winning strategy when it comes to being an angel investor most of the time. All right. I will try to go kind of fast most of the time. All right. I will try to go kind of fast through this to leave time for questions. So there's a big question of what to invest in. And here is the framework I use. I will consider anything that I believe could be a $10 billion company. And that is such a tight criteria, I have no other rules. So I am willing to look at any stage, I'm willing to look at any sector, I'm willing to look at any business model. There are other investors who have this, like, oh, I only do this one thing at this one stage. And maybe they make that work. I have never figured out how to do that. The great companies, the companies that are in that number one spot on the power law are so rare that I suggest you only select for things that can be there and other than that be really open minded. Speaking of the really big companies, I think, I don't know if this was always true, I suspect it may have been. But I think today, it is easier to start a hard company than an easy company. And this sounds super counterintuitive, but if you're going to build a really big company, you've got to convince people to come work with you, to pay attention to you, to write press articles about you, to care about you, to advise you. And if you are starting the 22,000th photo sharing application, it's really hard. If you are starting a nuclear fusion company, a lot of people want to help with that. And I think, especially for the companies that end up breaking out, this is really important. You know, this thing that is so interesting, people proactively want to help you for free, want to come be part of your team, whatever. This is something to look for. So, like, is this a company that I believe will be able to recruit hundreds of really talented people who could otherwise start their own companies is a super important filter that I don't think people think about enough. One thing that we've learned at YC is to mostly pick the founders. It is difficult to hear an idea at the very early stage and say, yeah, this idea has what it takes to be a $10 billion company. You can say an idea doesn't have it, which we'll talk about. But it's difficult to say this is for sure the big idea. However, I think you can, with practice, identify founders, and I'm going to talk about how, that have a chance at creating one of these companies. Paul Buhite, one of our partners, made a list of the four traits that he thought founders that go on to create giant companies have, and they are obsession, focus, frugality, and love. He said this sort of in passing in a meeting like two or three years ago. I've thought about it a lot since. There's other obvious things that everyone screens for. But pay attention to these. Speaking of the obvious things that everyone screens for, intelligence is really important. You can give a founder an idea. And they can start a company. The problem is they need to come up with new ideas for a company. Basically, like, every week, you have to come up with crazy new ideas, big changes all the time. We tried an experiment once at YC where we funded 20 teams of strong founders that didn't have ideas, but were otherwise really good. And what we learned, they all failed. And what we learned is that the good founders are the people that have ideas all the time. So there's an intelligence component to this. There's a creativity component to this. There is an ability to think independent thoughts component to this. But whatever you want to call this, this idea of this particular kind of intelligence that leads to seeing problems in different ways and thinking of ideas that don't yet exist but should, you've got to have problems in different ways, and thinking of ideas that don't yet exist but should, you've got to have that in a founder. Communication skills, I think, are one of the most important founder qualifications that people don't think about enough. So, so much of your job as a founder is about communication. You are, every time you hire someone, every time you go raise money, every time you try to sell the product, every time you try and set a direction for the company, you do it. Like, a huge amount of a founder's job is being an evangelist for the company. And if you don't have really strong communication skills, or if you don't develop them quickly, you're at a big disadvantage. Think about there are obviously famous exceptions to this. But if you think about it on the whole, the founders of the really super successful companies tend to be great communicators. Execution speed. There's a lot of ways to measure this. But and we talk about this a lot, the need to sort of relentlessly execute as a founder. This is incredibly correlated with success. So one way we test this during YC is between office hours, which we have every week or ten days, how much progress do the founders make? How quickly do they take a new idea and try it and say, hey, I came back and I tried that. This didn't work, but this other thing did. In the process, I had these three new ideas. I tried those. Just this relentless cadence of execution is incredibly predictive of success. And we had a joke once where there were all these founders who are incredible on paper. They never execute quickly. They always have great reasons for why they didn't. But they still never go on to be successful. And then there are these people who just like get an amazing amount of stuff done. Their iteration speed, the speed with which they can generate a hypothesis, test it, and implement it is unbelievable. That's really correlated with huge success. The rate of improvement of the founder. If you look at a founder who comes to meet you for a seed round, and compare that founder to Brian Chesky, you'll be disappointed 100% of the time. That is the wrong comparison. You will never write a check. However, just like startups, you look at the growth rate, you should look at the growth rate of the founder as well. So one thing that we can often tell over the 10 weeks of YC is how fast a founder is improving. This is different than how fast the business is improving. And, you know, like humans always underestimate exponential growth. We're not well evolved for that. And so if you notice a founder who is improving incredibly quickly over the couple of months you get to know that founder, pay a lot of attention. Again, you won't get Brian Chesky in a first meeting, but you can find people who are on a trajectory to develop into a Brian Chesky. And that is super valuable. This is one of those things where I have seen it maybe like 10 times in my career so far, where I just knew that this founder was going to develop into an incredible leader. And it's basically been every time I felt it, it's been right. I really do trust this rate of improvement metric. I think one thing you have to be increasingly aware of are the wrong motivations. So starting a startup is a very long-term commitment. If it's going to work, it takes more than a decade. It's really hard. There are a lot of days where you just want to give up. And there are a lot of people now who start a startup because they think it is a way to get rich quickly. And unfortunately, it's just not. So as startups have become the new default career trajectory for ambitious people, there are a lot of people who are doing a startup as a resume item or as a way to get rich quickly. This does not work. The amount of pain that you have to suffer for a startup, you realize at some point, you know what, I can do pretty well in any series of other jobs with much less risk and much less negative effect on my life. So you really do want to stay focused on the mission-driven founders. Again, if we look at our own success and failures in our portfolio of YC, every time we thought a company was going to go really well and didn't, the company, the founder, did not have this deep sense of mission. So it's something we really look for as a primary motivation. And then another way I used to get tricked a lot is there were founders that I didn't think were that good, but they had stumbled on a nice business. Or they had this metric that was growing pretty well, or all of my other investor friends were investing and so I got scared and did it anyway. But I think this focus on truly exceptional founders like people that I'm like wow I want to go work for him or her is really important. I have never once made a lot of money backing a founder that I thought was only okay but a business that was otherwise good. I talked a little bit about this, but we have a word at YC called Seamsters. This is different than people who just want to make a lot of money. There are increasing number of people who just want to be around startups and go to startup parties and talk about being a founder. Treat that as a red flag. Obviously low integrity people. That doesn't work out either. Okay, this is maybe the third biggest misunderstanding I had, and I think for many people it's their number one biggest misunderstanding. People always say that what matters is not a startup's current revenue, but its growth rate. And that's true. However, in the same sentence, investors will say, but the only thing I care about is the size of the market today. And this is obviously ridiculous on its face, right? Like if you think about the biggest companies today, ten years ago, many of those markets did not exist. If you think about the size of the social networking market when Facebook started, if you think about the size of ride sharing apps when Uber started, that's a really bad metric. And unfortunately it has become dogma among investors that size of the market is the most important thing. Even really good investors say this. I think they actually mean what they care about is the size of the market in ten years, but they don't say it that way. And what you should care about, of course, is the size of the market in ten years. If the market is huge today, first of all, you probably have a lot of big competitors already going after it. Big companies are doing that. Second of all, you don't get to surf this wave of this new technological change that pulls startups along and creates a ton of value in a short period of time. But you should prefer a small market growing super quickly to a very large market today. Super counterintuitive. If you chase the things that worked in the last set of companies, which is what most investors do, you know, Facebook works, so they all want to fund more social networks. Uber works, they all want to fund more ride sharing apps. That is much harder to do the second time. It's far better, but more difficult if you can identify the next rapidly growing market and invest there. This is where independent thought is really important. This is not something where you can just sort of follow what everybody else says by definition. You've got to learn to form your own thoughts about what the next really big market is going to be. One way that I like to do this, one way that I like to say, you know, is the market growing really quickly is to think about this question of whether something is a real trend or a fake trend. And I'll talk about that in a second, actually, right now. Okay. So, it has almost become a joke to make fun of, like, angel investors moving like a school of fish after one, you know, declaring something as a hot trend, and then two years later never talking about that again. and saying, well, that just didn't work. So there's this question. But sometimes they're right. You know, investors in Silicon Valley as a whole, for example, got mobile right as a thing in a big way. But then they got most other things in the last ten years wrong. And I think every time someone talks about a big trend, my first reaction is skepticism. And I suggest yours is as well. Okay, but how do you differentiate between a real trend and a fake trend? A real trend is one where although not that many people are participating yet, the people who are use the platform a lot every day and tell their friends spontaneously how great it is. So when the iPhone came out, most of the mobile industry would make fun of it because Apple only sold a million or two million, whatever it was in the first year. But if you talk to anyone who had an iPhone, they would say this is the greatest piece of, like, you know, technology I've ever had. People used it many hours every day. It was absolutely life-changing. So even though the number of people that had it were small, you could identify that as a real trend because the people who had it were not only daily active users but hourly active users. And they were the best free advertising Apple could ever have hoped for because they told everyone, like, this is the future. You've got to buy it. If you contrast that to something like... I've got to pick on somebody. I'll pick virtual reality. If you contrast that to virtual reality, everyone talks about it as the next trend. It may be in the future. But today, if you talk to people who have VR headsets, they don't use them every hour, they don't use them every day. Most of them don't use them every week. They sit on shelves. That has clearly not become a real trend platform yet. It may in the future. And the point at which, you know, people that you know, or a lot of people you know, a small number of people you know, even start putting their headset on for hours every day and telling all their friends they've got to buy one, it's the greatest thing in the world, that is the time to start investing heavily in VR. Can you pick that back up? So this question, you know, are people actually using the platform, I think is a really important one when you're trying to think about, you know, the next technology wave. And you do want to try to figure this out. You do want to try to figure this out. Certainly not all, but most of the biggest technology companies get created soon after one of these massive platform shifts. Sequoia says this thing that I've always liked, which is you cannot create a technology wave. That is well beyond the capability of a small company to do. But you can surf one if you can find the wave. And I think that's really important. And I think it's actually, like, if you use this framework, pretty reasonable to evaluate. Okay. So I mentioned this a little bit earlier. What you are looking for are good ideas that look like bad ideas. These are things that you can articulate. There is a reason that this is going to be huge that most of the world is missing. Unfortunately, what most people end up chasing are bad ideas that look like good ideas. I would say this is where like 90% of all angel capital in the startup ecosystem goes. So this is something that is worth trying to avoid. And the one very common way that people make this mistake, bad ideas that look like good ideas, are chasing the thing that worked two years ago. And so if you ever find yourself doing that, be very skeptical. If you find yourself tempted to invest in one company where there's hundreds of others working the same thing, be very skeptical. If you find yourself tempted to work on something that the founders work super hard to convince you is not going to be a long-term commodity, be very skeptical. The more people talk about, like, it is absolutely true that you want something that has real pricing power that comes from a network effect, a moat, a buried entry, whatever it is. But the more founders try to, like, when that's true, it's so obvious that the more founders try to sell you on why they're super differentiated and why they have this long-term competitive advantage, the more skeptical you should be. But I have found this framework just trying to think about is this a good idea that seems bad or is this a bad idea that seems good? I found that has helped me make good decisions a bunch of times. This is sort of YC's mantra, but it's so important that I wanted to talk about it again. The best companies all have great products. Unfortunately, the current fashion in Silicon Valley, I think, has gone a little bit too away from this. It's too much about growth hacking and sales and marketing machines and everything else. That does work for a while. You can get away, actually for a pretty long while, by executing really well to grow a mediocre product. You don't usually create a Facebook-sized company by doing that. And I think asking the companies often won't have a great product by the time you're making an angel investment. But if you don't believe they won't get there at some point, I don't think it will be a huge company most of the time. And here is the very simple framework I use for this. If I think about all of the most successful Internet mobile startups, I heard about those because this is like true for enterprise and consumer apps. I heard about those because they were so good that one of my friends spontaneously told me about it. They were not being incentiv one of my friends spontaneously told me about it. They were not being incentivized to. They didn't market to me. They didn't advertise to me. It was just like someone I trusted said, you've got to try this new thing. It's amazing. And if the startup is not going to get there, I think they will not be at that number one spot on your power law of returns. So I think this is like a really important filter. Related to that, and I mentioned this earlier a little bit, human intuitions about exponential growth are terrible. We clearly had no evolutionary need for this. We can visualize linear growth very well. We can visualize the trajectory of an arrow very well. Very few people that I have met, actually maybe none, can sort of tell me what, you know, like, let's say 25% monthly growth, 1.25 to the 36th power is. It's like, where will this company be in 36 months? It's really hard. And it is how these companies get super valuable. So I long ago learned to stop trying to trust my intuition on this. And I just model it out. And I try to model the decay rate about how much I think growth will slow down. But I try to say, okay, given that this company is growing by word of mouth, how big can it be in five years? And yeah, I've learned not to trust my intuition on that. And, yeah, I've learned not to trust my intuition on that. I mentioned this a little bit earlier, but I wanted to mention this near the end of the presentation. There are a whole bunch of words, a whole bunch of different ways that people talk about this. This is one of the most important concepts in startup investing. This is one of the things that differentiates investing in startups from investing in small businesses. You are looking for a company that gets more powerful as it gets bigger. You are looking for a company that gets increasing pricing power as it gets bigger. You are looking for a company that has an easier time getting more users as it gets bigger. That gets harder to compete with as it gets bigger. And you know, this is often fairly obvious. Sometimes it's not. Sometimes you really have to think hard. But you know, like once you do, you can come up with a story for it. This is something that a lot of people get wrong. Because they get caught up in, oh, this is so cool today. This company has discovered this wonderful thing. Almost all of the value in a startup is the revenue, the earnings it's going to generate in years 10, 11, and 12 from now. And so if you can't answer this, be pretty skeptical. And then finally, one other question that I like to think through before making an investment is, what do I understand that other people don't? There can be a lot of answers to this. But this comes back to not basing your decision too much off the decision of other investors. I like to understand, like, at a minimum, if I don't have an answer to this question, I don't feel like I have any competitive edge in that particular investment decision. But and sometimes the answer to this question is just like everyone's bullish on this company, but I'm more bullish because I understand the specific thing about this market. And everyone thinks it's good. I think it's even better. So I'll pay this very high valuation. But this is a question that I have found helpful for me in many scenarios. All right. Unfortunately, I took all the time, but maybe I can do like five minutes of questions. We definitely have time for some questions. I just wanted to remind all the folks who are live streaming that the hashtag for questions is is YCSIS. It's YCSIS. I think the beginning of the live stream might have missed that. So please do send some questions. And, you know, we started a little late, so perhaps run a little long and then we'll take a quick break. Thanks. All right. Yes. All right. Yes. What can early stage investors do to add a lot of value to founders? Almost if you ask founders this, which, you know, they're the customer here, I think that makes sense. Almost always the number one thing they want help with is hiring. So helping them find really good people, help them interview. Back when I was sort of an active angel investor before YC, I would tell founders, like, you can use me as much as you want for interviews. I will help recruit. I will help source people. I will help interview. I will help close. I think people really like that. Help with future fundraising. And then help with just sort of like, everyone wants to provide the big strategic advice. And that is really valuable. I think one of the things that I did well when I was an angel investor was I would just try to be available all the time for tactical advice. So I would meet for the big strategic what can this become advice, and that's fun. But I think a lot of the value comes just from being available at 11 o'clock on a Friday night when a founder needs a two-minute phone call for some emergency. So super availability for tactical advice I think is good. What flaws are acceptable in a founder at a seed or series A stage? A lot. I think don't compromise on the things that don't get better. Like, don't compromise on founder integrity. But if you think the founder's improving fast, I think a lot. So, like, I bucket this as traits that I believe can change and traits that I believe can't. And if the founder's improving quickly and it's something that I think is changeable. You know, we've had many, many very unsophisticated founders but that were smart and wanted to learn and were doing this for the right reasons, super mission-oriented, come through these doors, and they have just progressed really fast. So, you know, they were founders who I think had no domain-specific knowledge about like, one funny thing is when you are negotiating an investment, a lot of the time, a founder who is otherwise very good will have no idea because they've never done this before. And it kind of spooks you. You're like, wow, you don't know what evaluation is. And that's the kind of thing that's like, that's a flaw that's okay. How do you judge for integrity with a founder that comes out of a network? So in our experience, we have gotten this wrong a handful of times. But we have prevented ourselves from this mistake hundreds of times. Because even in our ten-minute interview, if you give, like, a founder a chance to sort of tell you about the unethical things they do, they will often do it. And surprisingly often. So I think the answer is you just listen to the decisions they've made so far in building the business. And if you're like, that's not a decision I think is okay, you can expect more of them in the future. But just listen in the first few meetings and you'll be surprised. We definitely have been fooled by plenty of people. But we also make our decisions in 10 minutes. Results-based observations about when to exercise and when not to. Several venture firms have done very sophisticated studies of this. And they've all come to the following conclusion, which is if the company is raising an up round led by a good VC, say a top quartile VC, you should always exercise pro rata. And if you do that across your whole portfolio, you'll be happy. Now, this could change if the world really changes. But in the world today, there's very clear data on this. What's pro rata? So often when you invest in a company, you will get not always, but often you will get something called a pro rata right, which is a right in future rounds to invest enough dollars in the new round to maintain your ownership level. Sure. Do I think security tokens and ICOs will change financings? Probably. But not in the way that most people think. I think this idea that everyone is going to just raise money from the crowd, I think we'll find out that we have securities laws for a reason and that we want some level of that and that the level of, you know, I think like there are some incredibly important ICOs happening right now, but they are dwarfed by the number of sort of things that are between just incompetence and scams. However, I do think that it's possible that we just find a much better mechanical way to track the investments we do right now. So that's possible. A bad idea that seemed... Sorry, a good idea that seemed like a bad idea. You know, this is like one of our darlings, but I just, like, it's an example that sticks with me so much, because they were in my own YC class in 2005, was Reddit. So when Reddit started, I remember very clearly, like, telling my friends about it, because I was like, oh, there's this site, and, you know, you can, like, find these links. And I remember people looking at me, and they were good, well-meaning people, nice people. That is the dumbest thing I've ever heard. There's all these things already on the internet. This one is just pictures of cats or whatever it was at the time. And there's no way you will ever make money on this business. So that's like, there's other more famous examples, but that is the one that for me resonates very deeply because I heard so directly from people I trusted so much. And I remember when they would say it, I would just be like, oh yeah, I guess it's not a very good idea. I had all this conviction that totally went away when people I trusted said something was bad. There's another common version of this problem, which is where there's an idea that seems good in the abstract, but everyone assumes the big companies will crush you. So, Dropbox is an example of this, where when we funded them and when they were kind of getting going, everyone was like, oh, it's a perfectly nice product, but, you know, Google, Microsoft, whatever, guaranteed to crush them soon. All right. Other questions? Yes. Yes? . You know, when Uber was getting going, there would be all of these articles that would come out, it felt like every year, where someone would say, Uber is not worth X, the entire taxi market is only worth,% of X. And this kept going. And that is really hard, right? Because you don't have a sense for exactly how big the market is because it's growing so quickly. I think one thing you can do is look at shifts in consumer behavior that are creating new markets. So if you thought of Uber as a replacement for booking limo services, that was one thing. If you then started to realize that people had begun to use it as a replacement for taxis and then public transit and then car ownership, you could project forward, wow, this market is actually going to be quite big because all of this other consumer behavior is going to shift here. All right. A solo non-technical founder. I wouldn't say I never would. I've done it before. I think it can work. I do like it when that founder learns enough to build an MVP. Where I've seen that go wrong the most often is then the ability to attract, evaluate, and retain technical talent. And so we have a strong, strong preference for founding teams that have at least one technical founder. We also have a strong preference for teams that have at least two co-founders. Again, none of these are absolutes. Because this is all about the power law, we are always willing to consider exceptions. So I would never answer a question like that and say I would never, but I would try to be clear, like, here's what I've seen work more often. What was the next question? Oh, a good amount of self-awareness. Oh, a good amount of self-awareness. I think a good amount of, like, willingness to take feedback and a drive and a desire to improve is really important. But, you know, you do also have to sort of believe that you can succeed in spite of all of your flaws. And so that's almost more important to me than someone who really spends a lot of time categorizing everything they're bad at. If they're willing to listen, willing to improve, I've usually found I can work with that founder. One more question in the back. How do you think about evaluating your time and resources to different founders? A self-indulgent way to do this, but one that works, is only fund founders that you want to allocate a lot of time to. Because if you don't, and if you're like, if the founder is difficult to work with or doesn't listen or you're just not excited about the business, A, that's probably a red flag for their qualities as a founder, and B, then you won't spend time and you won't help them and you won't get this differentiated thing. So I won't fund a founder that I don't want to spend a lot of time helping, and that has always worked pretty well for me. All right. Thank you all very much. So just a couple of quick notes. Sam mentioned that you want to look for founders who understand that startup success can take as long as a decade or more. I think it should be obvious that the same thing is true for you all. Investing is not a get, investing in startups, I should say, is not a get rich quick scheme. It requires both patience and the passion, the interest that is hopefully reciprocated by the founder. And the second thing I will point out, as someone who has done a lot of angel investing and compares his results to Sam's, that he's really, really good at it. So I hope you do listen quite carefully or have listened quite carefully to what he has to say we are going to take a short break so please try to be back here by 11.15 10 minutes and then Kirstie and Carolyn are going to talk about investing fundamentals and mechanics, thank you Thank you. Thank you. . Okay, okay, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have a lot of miles to go. Yeah, yeah. Okay, okay, okay. Yeah, no, we're here because our company's in talks with a couple of different people from various things. So, alliances, help with the buyout, help with the exhibition. And so, and then we're meeting another investor right now. Yeah, we're doing another one. Let's see, hopefully something happens. Thank you. And can we also just check the slides? Yes. Which color are you, Kirstie? Are you going to turn those off when we're not talking? Yeah, I'm going to turn it off right now. Hey, what's up? How's it going? Cool, how are you? Doing the live stream thing. Oh, you're doing the live stream. Yeah, we're just testing it out. How's your life? Pretty good. Cool. How's your life? It's pretty good. Yeah, cool. Cool? Yeah. So you're orange. And then we're just going to have to jostle for position on here, aren't we, I guess? Well, I'm going to go sit down. Like, when I'm not talking, I'm going to sit down here. Oh, okay. And perch. And perch. Yeah. Yeah, all right. That's really sucks. What if you have a leg? I want to clear my throat. I don't want to get a great leg in. Hopefully we'll see about that soon. How's it going? I'm going to pass sometimes. It's a great place to go. Oh, good. Yeah, yeah. It's a great place to go. All right. Thank you. Okay. Okay. You should make the call now because now it's the rest of the problem. Are you up? Right where are you? Okay. I'll let him know. Hello? Hey, Craig. Craig, can you turn this on for me? Yeah, which color is it? Orange. Hello, everybody. Quick announcement. In the spirit of having kinks, apparently we have a couple of overflowing toilets. The one in the back is not working. The one here is working. If there is too long a line, you may go across the street. It's a 335. If you go right to the left when you go in, there are toilets. Please feel free. Thank you. Is that just a fan? You know, that's called a big-ass fan. Thank you. I guess you have this exposure, yeah. It's just one of those things we got a long time ago, I don't think we ever turn it on again. It's awesome. It's cool though, right? Yeah, it's cool. Thank you. . Thank you. Thank you. Okay, apparently just me then. Is that okay? Yeah, it's okay. It's just so nice to see you. Okay, yeah. I'm Amy. Nice to meet you. Thank you. No, I haven't. You know, we might have done that if we had set it up that way, but we didn't stop the player to do that, so there's no permission to do that. Oh, we're going to totally fix that. Oh, let me Thank you. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello, everybody. Please come take your seats. We're going to get started right away, please. Thank you. Hello. Thank you. Okay. So first announcement is that apparently our toilets are closed here. There's a city problem. But it stops here. So if you need to use the restroom, please go across the street to 335. Give it one sec for people to come in. All right, this next session is actually one of my very favorites because there's so much mystery in the fundamentals of how you actually do a startup investment, what it really means and how it works. And there are no two people who are greater experts in that on the planet than my colleagues, Carolyn Levy and Christine Nathoo, who have dealt with these issues with, I guess, thousands of companies now. Certainly all 1,600 or 1,700 YC. What is the actual number? Probably no. Nobody knows. Anyway, hundreds of companies, they know this stuff better than anyone. Carolyn is the person who actually invented the safe. She used to be attorney at Wilson Sonsini before coming here, and Kirstie is the CFO of YC. They too have a couple of pithy quotes. You can guess who said what, because I don't know. One said all investors who can help should do so. Asking for additional shares is just asking for a freebie. I'm guessing that's Kirstie but I'm not sure. Having money is very valuable but someone who helps with strategy and direction is priceless. So choose wisely. So with that, I will give you Carolyn. Do you want me on the? I'm purple. Hello? Is this working? Okay. Yeah, I have no idea which quote is mine and which one is Kirstie's. And we were going to introduce ourselves, but since Jeff just did it, we will move right along. Like Jeff said, this is the mechanical part. Is my mic not on? Do people not? . Lights on? Just on low. Better, better, better? Better? Okay, I think we're good. Okay, so as I was saying, this presentation is about how to invest using Y Combinators SAFE, which is the first thing I'm going to talk about. And then Kirstie's going to describe howators SAFE, which is the first thing I'm going to talk about. And then Kirstie's going to describe how the SAFE converts in an equity financing. I'm going to talk about how the SAFE converts in other events. A quick word about process, and then we had some advice that Sam kind of covered, but we'll talk about it, we'll just reiterate it because it's important. Okay, so a lot of you raised your hand when Jeff asked or Sam asked how many people have already Angel invested. So I'm wondering how many of you have already used the safe? Oh, that's a lot. Okay. Okay. So I'm going to talk about the basics. For some of you that's going to be stuff you already know. But for those of you who have never used it, hopefully that will be helpful. It will be helpful. Okay. We drafted the SAFE for very early stage startups. So that means that the company maybe hasn't or definitely hasn't raised a price round, doesn't have any preferred stock outstanding. You absolutely can use the SAFE for companies that are later stage that have already raised a price round and issued preferred stock outstanding. You absolutely can use the safe for companies that are later stage that have already raised a price round and issued preferred stock. In fact, some of you may have already done that. But we intended it for very early stage startups. A time when you may not want to use the safe is if you are looking at a company that has already issued convertible promissory notes to earlier investors. And if that's the case, you're going to want to go ahead and just use that same note, not use the safe. And that's because it's a lot less complicated for a company to have all of its investors on the same document, and it's also more fair to have all the investors on the same footing. So obviously, if you find a company you want to invest in and they are actually doing a priced round, you are going to invest in that priced round and buy preferred stock. But for the vast majority of early stage startups, they don't have a lead investor, they don't have a person setting the terms, setting the price of the round, and most of the time for very early stage startups, they don't even know what they're doing yet. And that's where the safe comes in because for these very for very early stage startups, they don't even know what they're doing yet. And that's where the SAFE comes in because for these very, very early stage companies, they just want to raise a little bit of money from their friends and from family and from angels. And with the SAFE, they can do that very efficiently, very quickly, and very cheaply because neither the investors nor the company need to get legal counsel. and very cheaply because neither the investors nor the company need to get legal counsel. Okay, the SAFE as an acronym stands for Simple Agreement for Future Equity. As I said before, it is a convertible security. It converts into shares of the company's stock. The premise is very simple. You, the investor, give money to the startup right now, and at some point in the future, you're going to get your stock. The premise is very simple. You, the investor, give money to the startup right now and at some point in the future you're going to get your stock. One of the most important things, I say this a lot, the SAFE is not a loan. It is not debt. It does not accrue interest. There is no right to be repaid at some point in the future at some maturity date. So please don't call it a SAFE note. That makes me really crabby. Okay. What does it look like? I brought one. It's five pages long. Compare that to a set of financing documents, which is about five documents, and none of them are five pages long. They're all much longer. There are only two key terms. I'm going to show you. This is what the intro paragraph of the SAFE looks like. You can see that there are two blank spaces there. The first one is the amount of money that you're going to invest in the startup. And the second one is the valuation cap. Kirstie is going to get into detail about what the valuation cap is when she speaks next. But those are the only two things that you negotiate with the company. It is just that simple. After the intro paragraph, there is a whole section that describes the conversion events, which we will get into in a minute. There is a section of definitions, because it's a legal document. We always have to have definitions. And then the rest of it is boilerplate. An example of boilerplate, company makes reps and warranties to you about the status of the company. You make some representations to the company about being an accredited investor. And then there's a really skinny miscellaneous section at the end. I want to point out what is not in the safe. For those of you who own preferred stock, have made an investment in a company and gotten preferred stock, you will know about voting rights and information rights and liquidation rights. Those are not in the safe because the safe is not yet stock. When your safe converts and you get preferred stock, you will be piggybacking on all those same rights that the lead investor in the round has negotiated for the preferred stock. So you won't find those things in the safe. So what you will find in the safe is pro rata, and Sam conveniently defined that for some of you who don't know, who didn't know what it was before. It's the right to buy more stock in future rounds so that you maintain your percentage ownership of the company. The safe has a section that says that you will get those pro rata rights in the next round, not the conversion round, but the next round. So if your SAFE converts in a Series A preferred stock financing, that document will bake in the right for you to buy shares of the Series B financing so that you can maintain your pro rata percentage. pro rata percentage. Okay. So what we are what I've been talking about is what we call the capped safe. It's the one that has the target valuation. Kirstie's going to describe that in a lot more detail. It's the most commonly used safe that we have. But there are a couple of other versions of the safe that I'll go over briefly. There is something called a discount safe. Instead of negotiating that valuation cap in the intro paragraph, you and the company will negotiate a discount rate, and the discount rate will then apply to the shares when you convert the safe. Typical discount rate ranges in between 10 and 20%. So, for example, if the Series A round that your safe is converting in is the lead investor has priced it at $1 per share, and you've negotiated a 20% discount, your effective price is $0.80 a share. It's pretty simple. There's also an uncapped safe, which is not very common to use. This has neither a target valuation nor a discount, so really you're just converting your safe into the same price that the Series A is paying. There's no reward for being the early money. That's why it's a pretty unusual safe to have, but occasionally a company has such great demand that they can get away with serving up an uncapped safe. So just be on the lookout for that. And then a third version is what we call the MFN safe. MFN stands for most favored nation. It's a concept we borrowed from contract law. And there is no target valuation in this safe, but there's this MFN paragraph that says that if a subsequent investor negotiates a target cap, rather a target valuation or a discount, you get to amend your safe to take the terms that that investor got. So then your safe is no longer uncapped. And now, Christy. All right. So now we're going to talk about how the safe converts. And we'll cover how the Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch. Felly, yn gyntaf, y cap cyflogwyd. Mae hyn yn un o'r pethau, fel y dywedodd Carolyn, yn un o'r pethau y byddwch chi'n negosiadu gyda'r cydweithwyr. Ac fe wyt ti hefyd ei ysgrifennu nid yn unig fel cap cyflogwyd, ond cap cyflogwyd ar gyfer targed neu dim ond cap. Ac safe will convert at. So if the priced round is lower than the valuation cap in the safe, your safe will convert into shares at that priced round valuation. And it's important to note that people get really confused with the cap. They think it's a current valuation of the company. That's really not what it is. All it is is a way for you to be rewarded for coming in at the earlier stage when in theory you're investing at a riskier stage. It's the way for you to get your rewards and your bonus. And so ideally what you really should be thinking is if I'm putting money in at this cap, then what do I think the Series A price, how much higher do I think the next price round's price is beth fwyaf fwyaf ydw i'n meddwl y bydd prif rhan arall yn gael ei gael? Ac yn dda, rydych chi eisiau hynny, oherwydd yna mae'r cyfraniad yn well. Iawn, felly bydd y safon yn cyflawni i ffrindiau pan fydd y cwmni yn cyflawni cyllid cyfraniad, ynglyn  rhan arall. A And different companies, depending on the stage of the company, that priced round might be called a series seed. It might be a series A. Or there might be some situations where they've already raised a series A and there's some safes bridging them to the series B. So it's just whatever the next priced round is. We'll try to refer to it just as a priced round here, but sometimes it just slips in that it's a series A. But it can be any priced round. ond weithiau mae'n llwyddo fod yn arian A, ond gallai fod yn unrhyw rhan gwerthu. Ac yn y ffinansio cyfrif, bydd y gweithwyr yn negosiadu gyda chynhyrchwyr arweinyddol yn y rhan honno ac yn creu llyfr term sy'n adlewyrchu'r termau o'r rhan honno. Ac nid yw'r termau hynny'n effeithio ar sut mae'ch cymhwysoedd safe, oherwydd mae hynny wedi'i gosod yn y safe ei hun, ond mae'n effeithio ar faint o rai o'r rhain mae'r cymhwysoedd safe yn eu cymryd i mewn, fel byddwn ni'n mynd drosodd. Ac felly pan fydd y rhain yn gosod, bydd they're all happening at the same time. But in the calculations, they actually go in order. And you'll see why in a moment. So first of all, an options pool is created or increased if the company already has one. And usually the closing option pool, which is negotiated as part of the term sheet negotiations, it usually is around 10% of the post-round shares. And that's kind of what makes this calculation a little bit complicated, as we'll see in a moment. Next thing is that the safes convert into shares. And although the safes themselves don't state this, the term sheet will usually specify that the safEs convert in the pre-money. And what that basically means is that the shares that the SAFEs have converted into are considered when the price per share for the lead investor is being calculated. And again, you'll see that in an example in a moment. And then thirdly, the new money comes in. So the lead investor and anybody else who's investing in the round at that time will invest their money and buy their shares. Okay, here comes the maths. At a very high level, for any investor, the number of shares that an investor will receive is the investment amount divided by a price per share. And the price per share is calculated by dividing a valuation by the shares issued by the company. And the shares issued by the company is otherwise often or always referred to in the documents as the capitalization of the company. yn cael ei ysgrifennu fel y cyfrifoldeb y cwmni. I ddewis, mae'r cyfrifoldeb yn y cap, a'r cyfrifoldeb yn y rhain sydd wedi'u cyflwyno, yn ogystal 'r pwyllgor opsiwns cynyddol. I'r buddwyr newydd, mae'r cyfrifoldeb yn y rhain sydd wedi'i gael. priced round valuation. And the capitalization is the issued shares, the increase in the options pool, and the shares that the safes have converted into. All right, here's an example. So on the left over here, we have an example situation. So we have founders who have 9 million shares issued. There's three founders in this example, and they're all sharing the shares equally. And at demo day in March, the company raises $800,000 on safes, and they all have the same valuation cap. They all have an $8 million cap. Then fast forward to November 2019. Often it can take that long, maybe even longer, before a priced round happens. And they raise a priced round, which is where they raise $4 million at a $16 million pre-money valuation. And the terms that are negotiated in the term sheet as well are that the options pool will be increased to 10% of the post money andr safonau'r pre-money. Nid wyf yn mynd i fynd i mewn i'r cyfrifiad o sut mae'r cynyddu o'r pwylliau'r gwasanaethau yn gweithio, oherwydd mae'n dod yn gyflym iawn, fel byddanw o ddau miliwn o ffermwyr. Iawn, dyna'r adnoddau. Felly, y peth cyntaf sy'n digwydd yw ein bod wedi cynyddu ein gwrthfawr o opsiwns. Y peth nesaf sy'n digwydd yw'r cyfnod o ffermwyr. Felly, mae'r cymdeithas cyfrifol fferm is the issued shares plus the increase in the options pool, so 10.43 million shares. The safe conversion price is the valuation cap, because the cap is less than the priced round, divided by that capitalization to give a conversion price of 77 cents. 77 cents. So the shares that the SAFE investor buys are the $800,000 investment divided by this conversion price to give us just over 1 million shares. Everybody with me still? Okay, good. So then the next thing that happens is our new money calculation happens. So this is the lead investor in the price round. So this time the capitalization doesn't include just the issued shares and the increase in the options pool. It also includes the shares that the safes have converted into. So this time we have a capitalization of 11.4 million shares. And then the price per share is calculated again using the price per share, sorry, the valuation from the term sheet, the 16 million, divided by the 11.47 million shares to give a price per share of 139. And so those, that $4 million from the new money investors will buy 2.87 million shares. All right. Okay. So bringing this all together, this is a very simple cap table. It's much prettier than cap tables normally look. For those of you that are not familiar with cap tables, how this works is it's just a way of explaining the ownership of the company and who owns what and in what proportions. Here you can see that we have our three founders. They own common shares. Their numbers haven't changed. The number of shares that we have our three founders. They own common shares. Their numbers haven't changed. The number of shares that they have stays the same. We have our increased options pool. This is where the employees will be issued shares from in the future. And then we have our safe investor who has their 1 million approximately shares. And you have the priced round investor who has the 2.8 million shares. And these safe investor and priced investor has preferred shares. Founders and employees have common shares. So what you can see from here is that even though the safe investor has put in $800,000 of the total $4.8 million that the company raised, proportionally between these two investors, they actually have a much higher number of shares. And that's the cap coming into play. And that's how the safe investor gets the reward for their early investing. So that's how that works. yn dod i'r rhan ac mae'n ymwneud 'r ffordd mae'r gweithiwr safon yn cael y cyfrif ar gyfer eu gweithio cynnar. Felly dyna sut mae hynny'n gweithio. Mae hefyd yn dangos cyrff cyfrif ac gallwch weld bod fy mathau wedi gweithio. Mae ein gwrthdaroedd 10% o'r cyllidau cyflogol ystod shares which is the total of these two numbers. Now safe investors have quite a hard time of it because at the time that you actually sign your safe you don't really know how much ownership you're going to wind up with after the priced round and the reason for that is that even though the safe says how the safe is going to convert it doesn't specify says how the safe's going to convert, it doesn't specify how many shares it's going to convert into because that is dependent on the terms of the priced round. And so in this example, the safe investor has just over 7% of the shares. And the way you can think about it when you're signing your safe, if you're thinking about ownership, is kind of a rule of thumb of $800,000 invested at an $8 million cap gives an $8.8 million post-money valuation of the company. So the safe investor would own approximately 9% of that. But that assumes that the safes convert immediately on signing and there's no money. There's no new money. And that actually never happens. ymlaen yn ystod y 9% o hynny. Ond mae hynny'n ystyried bod y safon yn cyflawni'n gyflawni ar gyfer ymgyrchu ac nad oes arian. Nid oes arian newydd. Ac nid yw hynny'n digwydd. Felly, y rheswm pam nad yw'r 7% yn y 9% yn ddim, yw pam nad yw'n ddi-nig, y diluted by the new money coming in. And just as an example to just explain a little bit more, if the terms of the price round had all been exactly the same, except that the investor had only put in $2 million instead of $4 million, then the ownership here would be just over 8%. then the ownership here would be just over 8%. So that just tells you exactly, you know, you really can't tell how much you're going to get until the price round. Because that's quite difficult, it's important to do your own modeling and to think about how you, you know, what scenarios could happen to explain your ownership going forward. And so there's a couple of things that we have shared with you to help with that. Jeff, wherever he's gone, has written some software called AngelCalc. And that is modeling software that allows you to see various different scenarios. And there's also going to be a spreadsheet that I'm going to put onto the resources page at the Investor School website. sy'n gallu gweld ystod y gwahanol sefydliadau. Ac mae'n mynd i fod ysgrifennu sy'n mynd i'w roi ar y gwefan o ran ysgolion ar wefan ysgol ymddygiadol, fel y gallwch chi ddiddordeb 'r cyfrifiadau a gweld sut y gall safes ei gyflawni yn y dyfodol. Okay. Okay. So suppose you've invested in a company and before it raises a price round, something else happens. And examples of what else could happen is that it could get acquired, it could fail, or nothing could happen. So I'm going to talk about those. Okay. I think it's easiest to understand what happens in the safe in a merger acquisition situation if you look at both extreme ends of the spectrum. The first one extreme end would be a home run situation. And by home run, actually I think Sam mentioned this as well, this term. This is where an acquiring company is coming in and paying a lot of money for the startup you invested in. So what happens to the safe? Well, you are going to convert it into shares of common stock. You're going to do that by using the target valuation to determine the number of shares of common stock you get. And then you are going to participate in the proceeds of that merger along with the founders and the other common stockholders. In that case, you can expect a return that is well in excess of what you paid for your safe. This is also what would happen in an IPO, by the way. So same situation. Same result, rather. Okay, other end of the spectrum is the acqui-hire. And I don't know if this is a term that all of you in the room are familiar with, but this is a situation where an acquiring company is coming in and just taking the talent out of the startup that you invested in. So the founders and key employees, they are not paying money for the intellectual property or any other assets, and these are deals where there is usually very little money. In that situation, you are going to elect to have your SAFE paid off. So the SAFE gives you the option, and because most deals aren't at these two extremes of the spectrum, they're somewhere in the middle. What you need to do when you're confronted with this situation is actually do the math and figure out how you get the best result, whether it's converting into shares of common stock and taking in merger proceeds or just getting paid back. Okay. Okay. So sometimes a company raises money from you and other angel investors and just can't make it work. Hopefully they try really hard, but sometimes it just doesn't happen and they fail. And when failure happens, companies need to go through an actual dissolution process. And part of the process requires that creditors be repaid. In a dissolution situation, they need to pay off their trade debt, which is vendors and landlords, and they obviously have to, have to, have to pay their salary. Any employees they have, they need to pay the salaries. If there is any money left over, the SAFE says that you are next in line. So if there's money, the SAFE holders and any other investors will get paid back. Often it's pennies on the dollar, but they get something before stockholders get anything. And honestly, in a dissolution situation, not only is there never any money for stockholders, but there's rarely enough to pay back investors either. This is usually just a total failure and you can expect this to happen some of the time. What happens if nothing happens? So this would be a situation where the company has raised from angels and actually become self-sustaining, profitable, and they just putter along and suddenly they have no desire to raise a priced round, and nobody's knocking at their door to acquire them. So what happens? Well, the SAFE doesn't address this, and there's a reason why the SAFE doesn't address this situation. Number one, when you try to draft for all these corner cases, it stops being a simple document and becomes a very complicated document and a very long document. And number two, this just doesn't happen very often. In high growth world, this is extremely rare. But if you want to fund lifestyle companies, you definitely do not want to use the safe because then you're going to have this problem all the time. If you have accidentally funded a lifestyle company, then I think our advice would be to go talk to the founders about it because hopefully you invested in really good people and they would want to do right by you and figure out how to make you whole. That kind of goes back to Sam's point about being really careful about the founders you choose to put your money into. Oh, Kurt's going to talk about process. Okay, so we've talked about what the safes are and how they convert, but now let's talk about the process for actually signing the safe and then also for converting it into the shares. So the first thing in this Ond nawr, gadewch i ni siarad am y broses i ddewis y safle ac wedyn hefyd am ei gyflawni i'r cyllid. Felly, y peth cyntaf yn y broses hon yw'r rhaglen ymgyrchu. A'r rheswm pam y gwnaethom hyn yw helpu i ddewis anghyfaint o ddeguniaethau. Mae'r cydweithwyr yn and we've seen many situations where the investors said something like, yeah, I'm interested. Meaning, I'm interested in finding out more about the company. And the founder hears this as, I'm going to invest in your company. Cue lots of misunderstandings and confusion. So the handshake protocol is just simply a set of emails that sets out in writing the key terms and makes sure that everybody is in agreement. So the founder sends an email to the investor and says, just confirming that you're in for X dollars at Y cap. And then you reply to the email to confirm. And at this point, there's a handshake deal, and it's considered bad practice at this point to back out. And again, reputation is everything in this world. So, you know, you don't want to be doing things like backing out because it can harm your reputation. And on the flip side, the founders are under no obligation to take your money until that handshake deal is completed. yw'r ffynwyr yn llwyr o ran nad ydych yn rhaid i chi ddod 'ch arian hyd at y diwethaf yna. Felly, yn enwedig mewn diwethaf hwyl lle mae llawer o bobl yn ceisio mynd i mewn, rydych chi eisiau mynd trwy'r broses diwethaf yna er mwyn gwybod y byddwch Mae'n ymwneud 'r adroddiad blog mwy ychydig mwy ymwneud 'r adroddiad. Ond dyna'r pwyntiau allweddol. Yn fawr, bydd ychydig o ffondwyr YCC yn defnyddio Clerky i anfon a chyfeirio safes. Ac mae'r cymdd y gweinidogau'n cynnwys y pethau arbennig ar gyfer eich buddsoddiant yn y dewis hwnnw. Byddwch yn cael cymhwyso'r cwestiwn arweinyddol drwy Clerky, lle gallwch chi adolygu'r pethau, yn y ffordd cyfweliol neu'r fform ddewis ei hun, So you don't need to do it all in person. The founders will also include wire details at that point, so you have those handy as soon as you've signed. Sometimes the founders might use other platforms, and especially non-YC founders. There's lots of options out there. HelloSign is another e-signing platform similar to DocuSign. Or simply they might just download them from our website, which is this link, fel DocuSign, neu, yn syml, gallant ddarllen nhw o'n wefan, y cwbl hwn, a chyflwyno nhw i chi mewn e-bost i gynllunio ac ysgrifennu. Mae'r holl waith hynny yn ddewis. Pan ydych chi'n cael cyflwyniad o ran clerc, neu unrhyw fath arall, dylai chi ddewis bod y sy ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cymorth ar gyfer cym the founders won't always know the legal name if you haven't set that out specifically for them. So you should make sure that those details are correct before you sign the safe. Don't sign the safe and then tell the founders it needs changing. And you should be ready to wire the money as soon as you sign the safe. The safe isn't valid until the money is wired. And one of the things that when we ask founders what makes a good investor, one of the things that comes up a lot is that the investors sign and wire the money quickly. You know, it's important to the founders that they raise their money and get back to work. And so investors that delay the process or that say that they want to invest and then say to the founders, oh, but hang on, because I just need to close my fund or I'm just, this company is nearly exited and I'm just waiting for the transaction to happen so I can get some money. Really, if that's the situation, you should probably not be talking to founders about investing in their company until you actually have that money available Os ydych chi'n ymwybodol o hynny, byddwch chi ddim yn dweud wrth y cyhoeddwyr am fuddsoddi yn eu cwmni hyd yn oed wrth i chi gael y arian hynny. Pan fyddwch chi'n cael cyfnodion cyfnodion yn y rhain, byddwch chi'n cael eu cyflwyno i ddod o hyd i fwy o ddocwmnys. Bydd y ddocwmnys hyn yn y ddocwmnys y mae'r gweithiwr arweinydd wedi'i anfon a fydd wedi cael ei negosiad gan y gweithiwr arweinydd a'r tm llygol a'r tm llygol y cwmni. Byddwch yn cael e-bost o'r ffonydd neu'r ll point need to ask them to send you the conversion calculations, otherwise known as a pro forma cap table, so that you can actually confirm how many shares your safes are converting into and see your post money ownership. And you should definitely make sure to review that. The cap tables that we see, and we've now seen thousands of cap tables, it's surprising how many times the lawyers actually get the conversions wrong. So I really strongly recommend that you do review those cap tables and you make sure that you are happy with the calculations for how your safes convert. And now sadly, you might not actually have much time to review these documents and to review the cap table. You know, the founders will be focusing on the lead investor. They'll be negotiating with the lead investor and they'll have set a closing date. And then they'll suddenly send you an email out of the blue saying, we need to close tomorrow. Here are the documents you have to sign. And, you know, yes, you want to be a good citizen and you don't want to hold up the closing. But also, you know, this is your investment and you need to make sure that you're happy and that you've reviewed the documents and that you, you know, accept the terms in there. So don't sign until you are happy with those documents. All right, Carolyn. All right, Carolyn. Okay, so as I mentioned, Sam kind of already said some of this stuff. But I'll just reiterate because these are really important points. The first piece of advice, and this is what we meant about think about the upside, this is just Sam's power law point. If you believe in the power law and you invest that way, then what you're not going to do is waste time negotiating downside protection. Because what you've realized is that eking out a one and a half X return on all these little investments is not worth it when you have the mindset that you're funding the next Google and that's going to be your, you know, 100X return. The next point we wanted to make is be helpful. And Sam also touched on this a lot. Be helpful when the founders ask. Sometimes angels write checks and they completely disappear. And sometimes angels write really, really small checks and then they pester the heck out of founders forever. Don't do that. Figure out, be the kind of angel that just gives the right amount of help. Sometimes angels think that they need to ask to be on the board of directors in order to be officially helpful, and you don't. And please don't, because it's actually not something the founders probably want. Sometimes, I mean, there's exceptions, but usually you don't and please don't because it's actually not something the founders probably want sometimes I mean there's exceptions but usually they don't want early investors on their board of directors and lastly tolerate failure I think that all the other speakers in this course are going to talk about this a lot I think it's really easy to get buyer's remorse when a company really starts to struggle. And I think that gets even worse when the founders decide to pivot. But you should expect and prepare for pivots. And remember, the safe is not alone. You can't go running in there and ask for your money back just because the founders start doing something different. You need to tolerate that, and you need to be be supportive and you need to give the founders a chance. Okay, so in conclusion, we have covered quite a lot here and SAFEs, although on first glance look simple, can get quite complex. So if there's anything to take away from this, these are the key points. So use the safe to invest. It's the fastest and easiest method. Understand your rights as a safeholder and at the point of conversion. I cannot stress this enough, but understand your ownership and understand where that comes from. And finally, be patient. You know, this is a long game. You're going to be with the company through highs and lows. And, you know, you need to see it out. So good luck to you all. I hope you all make lots of great investments. And I think we have some time for some questions. Jeff, do you want us to take questions? Yes. Okay. Do you want to call on people? Yeah. So, the question is, how do you make sure that you are fully rewarded? Is that what you were saying? How do you make sure that you are fully rewarded? Is that what you were saying? . Okay. So, and the vulnerability of the cap to the subsequent money. So you know, the numbers we're talking about here are an $8 million cap and a $16 million Series A pre-money valuation. If you're invested in the next Google, you're going to exit at $30 billion or whatever the number is. So whether your cap is $8 million and the Series A is $16 million or whether your cap is $10 million and the Series A is $14 million, there is still a huge amount of upside there. And that's where you need to think. You're still going to get that upside because you still have that ownership from having that early valuation investment. And also, you need to remember, you do have pro rata rights. And remember, Sam made the point that you need to exercise those because, yes, you are going to get really, really, really diluted because you're the early money. But if you can't afford it and you can keep putting more money in, then when you have that liquidity event, you should recognize all that upside. I think the question was directed towards the safe itself as potentially vulnerable. And I don't see that. I think that that's a misunderstanding of the way convertibles, convertible debt or a safe actually converted to shares of stock. And again, as they said, I will harken back to Sam's idea that it won't matter in the end whether you invest in a safe, a convertible note, or equity if you invested in Airbnb at 10, 15, 20, $20, or $30 million, you'll still have the sort of returns that Dario saw if you invest $70 million. You can do the math. Do the math of investing $70,000 in a company that becomes worth $10, $20, or $30 billion at a valuation of $10 or $20 million, and it will be stunning. Okay, let's go to the front here. Yeah. and it will be stunning. So the question was, who controls how much money the founders raise on safes? And what do you do as an investor if you sign a safe with, let's say, an $8 million cap today, and then the founder comes and signs another safe with another investor tomorrow at a $5 million cap? So the first part of the question, the founders decide how much they're going to raise on the safes. And the advice that we give to the founders is to be very thoughtful about how much you actually raise on the safe because you are selling the company. You're selling part of the company. And so we counsel them to be very careful about dilution and to really think about that. So whilst the investor doesn't have a huge amount of say in that, the founders are thinking bod yn ofnol iawn am y lleniaeth a meddwl am hynny. Felly, er nad yw'r ffyniadwr yn cael llawer o ddweud hynny, mae'r ffyniadwyr yn meddwl sut i wneud y gwaith i'w gael. Y rhan ddwyol y cwestiwn yw'r cap. Mae'n eithaf anodd y byddwch yn gynllunio safle that you will sign a safe with a valuation cap of 8 million, let's say, and then the next day they'll sign a cap with 5 million. Usually, like Sam and Jeff have mentioned, there is some element of herd mentality going on in investing. And so if an 8 million cap works for other investors, then the next investor is likely to take that as well. Maybe there's situations where sometime further down the road they might raise money with a slightly lower cap. And it's really circumstance dependent at that point. You know, there's nothing written into the documents to protect you from that unless you have the MFN provision in there. But, you know, again, we advise founders to treat people fairly. And, you know, if things have changed or something's happened, then, you know, see what they can do to help their investors. What should a safe investor do when their rates are limited by a new lead investor? For example, pro rata rates only being given to major investors upon conversion. We see this happen all the time. Oh, did everyone hear that question? No. Oh, right. Okay, so what happens when the lead investor, let's say you have a safe and it's converting into a series A round and the lead investor is not respecting the rights in the safe, for example, the pro rata right. You need to fight back on this. We see this happen all the time. We advocate, we tell our founders all the time, you do not get to ignore the rights in the safe. This is a contractual right. You're breaching the contract if you do not give the safe holders their pro rata right. This goes back to something Kirstie said, too. It kind of sucks when they only give you 24 hours to read these documents because you should immediately be going through and making sure that they did give you these rights, right? And you should also be checking the cap table to make sure that they converted your safe correctly. But so the answer to the question in short is notice, find it, notice it, tell them that's not okay, push back on it, make them honor their contract. And oftentimes it's actually the lawyers who are trying to make this more streamlined. And the founders either don't know it's happening or they haven't really registered. And so if you go and say to the founders, hey, look, you know, I should have pro rata rights here, then they'll be pretty willing to make that change in the documents. Their reputation matters too, by the way, not just yours. So if they screw you out, screw you over and don't give you the right that you had, that reflects poorly on them as well. Do you want to do more? So the question was, should we consider investing as an LLC or as an individual for tax considerations and various other things? Well, so if you're invested in an LLC, they're pass-through entities anyway, so the taxes would still roll up into your personal tax returns. And usually it just depends on circumstances. You know, if you're investing your own money, it usually makes sense to just invest directly, or if you have a trust, to be able to do it through that. If you start to be pooling money together, either amongst a number of investors or using other people's money to invest, then it makes more sense to create an LLC or some kind of fund structure. Okay, so the question is, why is there no pro rata in the conversion round, and is there a way to get it if you want it? So the reason that we didn't put pro rata in the conversion round is because back at the time that we drafted the SAFE, this goes back to about 2013, seed rounds looked a little different. There was usually a shorter time in between the seed and the Series A. Things have changed a lot in the last couple years, and so we are actually thinking about, well, maybe we need to rejigger things. Maybe it should look different because the timing is now very different. But in the interim, what a lot of angel investors do is they do, just like you said, they sign a side letter and they say that they give themselves, you know, they negotiate with the company for a side letter to give themselves a pro rata right to not only have their safe convert into Series A, but then to purchase more shares on top of the conversion shares at the lead investor price. So that does happen. Yes. I primarily invest in emerging markets, emerging side markets. So I've also encountered this about what happens if nothing happens. And most of my investors actually have been in the conversion . Now, what's the difference between the conversion and the conversion? I think the conversion is more of a conversion. I think the conversion is more of nothing happened. And most of my investors actually have been using convertible notes . Now what I'd like to see this is this. Convertible notes, they do pay a loser. So you clearly feel the loser's pain when you're just like this. You're also a loser that has an inspiration game. So when you use one of these hard generation revenues, and especially with the downside effects . . Well, you got to, I mean, if that works better for you, then you should continue to use it because it's just kind of all about your investment strategy and sort of your approach to it. I think in this class, you're going to hear a lot about the approach that Sam described. And for those kinds of investments, we think the SAFE works really well. But obviously, you're all going to have different strategies, and you need to use whatever instrument works best with your strategy. A couple more on the line questions. First, when you use SAFE, do you need to use private placement memoranda? And I think that's what that's going to be. So the question was, do you need a PPM, a private placement memorandum to do a SAFE? And the answer is emphatically no. You don't even need a term sheet to do the SAFE. You don't even need a PPM these days to do a priced round. Nobody really does those anymore. SAFE is just one document. That's all you need. For a priced round, it's usually just a term sheet. That's all you need. So I haven't seen a PPM in years. So that's the answer to that. And then the second question was, do safes work around the world? And in general, the answer is yes. But there are some situations where they don't necessarily work. I know that we've heard some companies in India aren't able to use safes. I think it depends on who the investor is. They have to be on a certain list. ymddygiad sydd ar y list. Hefyd, rwy'n credu, yn y DU, maen nhw wedi ffwrddio'r safle i gwneud yn fwy i'r cynllun cynnig arbennig sydd ar gael yno. Ond os ydych chi'n yn fuddsoddi mewn gwahanol wladau, yna dylai chi wneud eich gwaith yn eu hwyr i sicrhau bod yna ddocwment yn wir yn y wlad hwnnw. So, the question is sometimes this question has had safes that don't convert in the pre-money and how common is that? Well, so first of all, it's getting less and less common that the safes convert at the same time as the round. Series A lead investors are getting more clever about this and realizing that if the safes convert in the pre-money, then the lead investors are getting less dilution. And really all that's happening is if the safes do convert in the round, they'll just massage the valuations to still get to the same place that they want to be, which is usually around 20% of the company post-series A. There was a second part to that question as well. Well, I will say that that exact point is exactly what this gentleman was saying about pro rata. Because that is more of a trend that we're seeing that sort of argues for going ahead and having the safes also have a pro rata in the conversion round. So these things are all tied together. And again, I'll just go back. You said the primer doesn't do the math that way. Again, 2013 when it was drafted, things looked a little different and they've evolved. And so we are definitely talking about evolving the safe in certain ways. And just to reiterate, the safe itself doesn't mention this. It doesn't mention that it will be in the pre-money or it will be in Mae'r safle ei hun ddim yn sn am hyn. Nid yw'n sn bod y safle yn y prif arian neu'n y rhan. Mae'r safle yn sn am sut rydych chi'n datblygu'r cyfrifoldeb i weithio allan eich prif ysgol ar gyfer y safle ei hun. Mae cwestiwn yn l. Yeah. yeah yeah so so the point there was that that founders don't understand this either and that's absolutely right and you know again, one of the things that I spend hours and hours with founders as they're raising money at Demo Day and beyond is explaining to them how this works and how to think about dilution and how to understand what converting in the pre-money means and all these different terms. And, you know, at the end of the day, it's one of those things that there's only so much we can do. At the end of the day, it's one of those things that there's only so much we can do. If the founders don't want to understand it, then there isn't a lot there that we can do for them. There's so many resources, though. Maybe everybody just needs to go to these resources. If you do the math and you do the pro forma cap table and everyone agrees what that looks like, it is so much better. Everyone just needs to take the time to model it out. It eliminates so much confusion if you take the time to do that. Okay, the question is, is there case law around investor liability when you're investing as an individual rather than through a legal entity? There is tons of case law regarding a stockholder non-liability for bad things that the corporation does. If the stockholders aren't liable, then certainly if you go even further out the circle and you just have people put money in in exchange for convertible security, it's not a problem. So you're fine. If I understand your question correctly, you're fine. One more question. If I understand your question correctly, you're fine. One more question. Is there an optimal legal structure for the startup? Okay, so the question is, what's the optimal legal structure for the startup? So for YC, we invest in mainly Delaware C-Corps. For you signing safes, you'll probably want to make sure that the companies are C-Corps. It doesn't matter if they're in Delaware or if they've incorporated in California or wherever else it might be. Obviously, if you're investing in foreign companies, then you'll need to do a little bit more homework because we don't necessarily know how all the structures work in all the different countries. We have seen some investments where people have invested into LLCs, but we don't really understand how that happens. So I would recommend that you stick with C-Corps. High growth companies are not LLCs. So maybe one more question from online. The question was about MFNs. Are those standard and safe? Male Speaker 3 Are MFNs standard in SAFE? No, they are in the SAFEs. Male Speaker 3 The most favored nation that I discussed sort of in the middle of the presentation. Those are not standard. Those go along with the, those are part of the SAFE that doesn't have a cap. So what this person may be asking is, can I negotiate a target valuation or a discount rate with a company and also have an MFN so that if someone gets something better, I can amend my SAFE after the fact and get that better term? It's kind of like what your question was, what happens if I do $8 million and next day another angel does $5 million? Can I get the benefit of that? We don't have that flavor of safe because I kind of feel like you make a bargain, you live with it, right? You and the company negotiate the best bargain you can get, the two of you, and then that's what you live with. So we don't have that flavor of safe up on our website. You can drop an MFN into the safe if that's what you and the company agree is fair. So it's possible you could just cut and paste that paragraph right into a capped or a discount safe if you want to. I would counsel founders that that's probably not the right way to go, but you could try it. Just a couple of quick things, and then we're done for today. So safes are weird, and convertibles are weird. I had done over 100 investments, and I decided, not all safes, but mostly in convertibles, and I decided I better figure out what happens when they convert. And I realized I had very little idea, as someone back there pointed out, that both investors and founders get really confused. As Carolyn said, there's a lot of tools now. I actually built a tool called AngelCalc that's open and available. It lets you very simply and quickly model what a safe conversion looks like. Because it's worse than just the fact of whether... And by the way, AngelCalc always assumes it's in the pre-money because it's always in the pre-money now. Almost. Almost always. And if it's not, I can't remember, I may have built something in to allow you to do it if it's not in the pre-money. But it almost always is in the pre-money. But it's much worse if there's multiple safes with multiple valuations, multiple different discounts, which is often not uncommon now. So as Caroline said, the best thing to do is to model this, is to see what it really looks like, to work with the founders. Remember that. The question is to, you know, what do you do if later investors try to screw you? I actually wrote a post about this called Transparen investing and I think what you ought to do is you ought to ask for anything that you should actually provide a form that you can send to the founder and say or to the entire team sending you the update that says hey are any of my rights changed from my document and if they are then you should have a conversation, not with the lawyer, not with the VC, with the founder who, you know, remember, has a relationship with you, I hope. You are the first best investor, the person who believed in them before the rest. It's going to be hard for them to look you in the eye and say, screw you, I took away your pro rata. Again, I think you need to be careful with these. You don't want to screw up their deal and you want to be a great investor, but it is fair and they have the power in almost every case, almost every case, to go back to their investors and to the lawyers and say, why are you doing this? You know? Kirstie is the best investor I've had. How are you taking away her prerata? The other thing I'll say about lifestyle companies and why I think the safe is preferred in general to debt is because we've seen too many times where the fact that there's debt there is used to kill a company that didn't have to die. And it's too easy for investors to call that debt when it's not payable. And we tend to be on founder's side. That might sound weird as investors, but it turns out that if you end up on the founder's side more often than not, then your probability of getting into one company that will make all those other investments irrelevant is much higher. We're done today. Tomorrow we're going to be kicked off by Dalton Caldwell talking a lot about founder meetings which is going to be a great session I think and then after that we have two amazing presenters. Paul Buchheit is going to talk about in his sort of epic investing career what he's learned. And then I'm going to have a brief conversation with Michael Seibel, the CEO of Y Combinator. Thank you all very much for coming. You're live streaming. And we'll see you tomorrow. Thank you.