 Good morning founders. Welcome to Startup School 2019. I'm gonna go over four things in this orientation. I'm gonna introduce you to the Startup School team. I'm gonna introduce you to your fellow classmates slash founders. I'm gonna explain how Startup School works and then give you a tour of the software, the events, and the content that we're making for you for the next 10 weeks. There are five people that make up the startup school team. Me and Adora are YC partners. We will act as the hosts and we'll also instruct some of the lectures. Stephen Pham is the batch director. He's in charge of helping you guys with all the logistics and answering your questions and helping you understand what's next and just being super helpful and responsive to whatever it is that you might need in regards to what do i have to do for startup school we have kyle he's built all the software and written all the code that you guys are going to be using for the course. And he'll probably be adding new features as we go on based on your feedback. And then we have Ashman, who's going to be act as the person who's going to represent your voice. He's going to be analyzing the data, looking at the stuff that you submit to us, and then looking at all your feedback and even be reaching out to many of you to get an understanding of like, how is startup school going? Are we sort of meeting your needs? And helping me and Adora adjust what is necessary to make the course be so much better for you guys. to make the course be so much better for you guys. And then we have an army of YC alumni, and then of course all the partners who are giving lectures, who's gonna be participating and helping us out. They'll be inside of the forums, they'll be at our live events, and it's gonna be super awesome. If you need help, this is the email, startupschool at ycombinator.com. That person is probably going to be Steven that's manning that, but he'll triage it appropriately. Where I hope you will ask for lots of help is from your fellow classmates from the forums. It is actually a lot of how sort of YC works. People don't constantly come to the YC partners to get help. They actually rely on one another. And it's through the forums where this is going to happen, where the community is built, and it'll feel really magical. We've got a couple of goals for the Startup School team. I'm hoping that you can use us as an excuse to work on your startup. We have built this 10 week sort of structure. We've built these set of lectures based on a curriculum that we think works for all different kinds of companies. And we hope that you will use us as a vehicle for working on that passion project or idea. We want to improve how you think and talk about your startup. We want to help you understand how investors think about ideas. And we want you to get a lot of practice in on talking about your idea in a concise and clear way. And then for companies that are already launched and have users or revenue start up school is going to be an awesome place for you to revisit first principles to look at how you thought about the idea and try to find oh where there are holes in your thinking or where there are opportunities in thought that can help you sort of unlock growth or opportunities or even completely rethink how your business might work. And then lastly, we want to build a global community of founders, something that we think hasn't been done before at this scale. Now for most people who start Y Combinator and are entered into the batch, most of them have this thought that they're in the wrong place, that they're too early, that they're too late, or they have impasha syndrome. And I want you to know that you are not alone, that you are in the right place, and that you're in good company. There are 28,000 founders who are participating in Startup School and another 25,000 people who are auditing the class just to get updates and keep up to date on sort of the lectures and ideas that we're presenting. One thing I want to say is that more people are going to be joining the class. We've actually moved the deadline because we realized that, hey, since we, you know, require eight out of ten group sessions or weekly updates to consider that as graduating from the course. There's no reason why we should cut off signups until after the second week. So the deadline now is August 4th and spectators expect me to try to get you to join us founders over here in working on your startup sooner than you might think you're ready. Now, there are 21,000 startups that are registered for startup school, and I want you to know that there are so many different kind of startups taking this class, and that we have actually designed a program that's gonna work, hopefully, for all of you. 11,000 of you are full-time, 8,000 of you are part-time, and that means that we're gonna work on helping you think about your idea in a way to make you feel confident about quitting that job or figuring out what you can do when you have only limited amounts of time to work on your startup so that you're most productive on your startup. We have 4,000 launched companies, but we also have 5,000 companies that only have prototypes, 4,000 who are just at the idea stage. And that means that we've got content for all of you. 5,000 of the companies are actually teams and 16,000 companies are single founder companies. This is a record for Startup School. Part of that has to do with the new single founder matching program that we've built into this year's software. But I want you to know that we've got really great resources for you. There's 12,000 companies that have at least one technical founder, which means there's 9,000 companies that have at least one technical founder, which means there's 9,000 companies that have no technical founders. And I want you to know that that doesn't mean that you're hopeless. You have opportunities and we have content and inspiration that will work for you. And then we have 4,000 companies that have at least one female founder. And so you all will hopefully be able to find and support one another and I want you to know that you might be skeptical why how can an online class be able to address all these different types of companies needs and I want you to know that this is basically what regular Y Combinator looks like in a natural batch we We have groupings, we have people who are non-technical, we have people who are teams or just single founders, we have people who are just at the idea and prototype stage, and we mix them all together every single batch. And the reason we're able to do that is because companies are more alike than they are different, and that for all of them, we always have to revisit first principles and that most of what we have to help them with is storytelling of their company, which everyone can always use help with for thinking about things from first principles to figure out like what are better ways of unlocking growth. And most importantly, is we figure out how to match them and group them up with other people that are just like them or have them be influenced by other people that are ahead of them and our group sessions are going to be designed to help you get just that in an online way which we're really excited about companies are in over 140 countries. These are some of the cities that have the most number of startups that are participating in startup school. For many of these, we are organizing our own live events, but we also know lots of other companies where people are self-organizing, lecture-watching events, or their own sort of meetups. And we totally support you to do that because one of the nice things about doing a company in a community is that you're not alone. You get a chance to sort of vent and that sort of helps sustain you when things are difficult and hard. And so, as we said, you are in good company and you're in the right place this is just a couple of the verticals that we have doing YC 2400 companies working on B2B solutions 1400 doing artificial intelligence startups 400 companies working on blockchain ideas and one that I really really love is that we have 97 companies working on moonshots really really hard tech solutions which I'm super excited to be a part of here is how to graduate you only have to do two things and we've made it really really simple it's the reason why we have such a high pass rate for startup school. You have to submit eight out of 10 weekly updates. These are really quick briefs about your progress. We have no content restrictions. Basically, you just have to submit something eight out of the 10 weeks. Show us that you're doing something on your company and doing some kind of self-reflection. And then you have to participate in eight out of the 10 group video sessions. And that's it. This is super easy and maintainable to do. And we don't ask that much extra time of you. We want you to spend as much time working on your own startup as possible. So this is not going to be onerous. One thing to keep in mind is that you must submit a weekly update to be able to participate in a group session. So if I was going to choose one to skip, I would definitely not skip the weekly update. Because that will mean you will automatically probably not be able to do a group session. And so you don't want to be in that bucket because that's going to make it much more difficult for you to graduate. How do you get the $15,000 grant? How do you become eligible for that? Well, you have to graduate, which means eight out of 10 on the weekly updates and the group sessions. And then at the end of the course, you'll apply to YC. Super simple. The application is due September 25th. That's a Wednesday on the last week of the course. We'll actually spend some time talking you through and giving some advice about how to fill out that application. And this works out really nicely, both for us and for you you it works out well for us because we're reusing the same system that we use to read through thousands of applications and also it's a two-for-one for you guys so not only you applying for the $15,000 equity free grant you're also applying for a chance at the hundred and fifty thousand dollars that we give to the YC core companies. I want you to make it very, very clear that nothing that you do in startup school and nothing that you have submitted in the past in past applications affects your future possibility of getting into the next batch. And the reason that you should believe us is that it would be ridiculous for us to have permanently rejected, for example, the founders of Dropbox based on their homework helper application and thinking that they would never be able to come up with some other idea. So again, nothing about the stuff that you do or participate or submit during startup school means that it's going to affect your future capabilities of getting into YC. I want you to know that we do not think of it like that, and I hope you do not think so either. So let's just remove that myth. Now, after submitting on september 25th we will do interviews in october and i want you to know that if you get lucky enough to be also accepted into the yc batch for the next time but all you cared about was getting the equity free grant you do not have to take acceptance into YC right the other thing to keep in mind is applying for the grant is totally optional and applying to YC is also optional but in order to get at the grant you have to apply to YC that just sort of makes things efficient for us and I think it just doubles your opportunity for something wonderful to happen to you. Time commitment. So based on our basic requirements, those two things that we want you to do, it should take about two to three hours a week and that means taking about 15 minutes to write your weekly update. It should not take longer than that. You should not be writing a long essay about your company we want you to practice being concise as much as possible that's going to help you through all the different parts of you talking about your startup either with others or to your board or your employees etc we're going to generate about a hour of video content every week. And then there's gonna be 30 minutes to one hours in a group session, and then probably another 15 to 30 minutes to prep for that, depending on how much dedication you wanna have for that. In regards to what you should block off, we recommend Thursdays at 8 p.m. your local time for the group sessions. This is the time that we found last year most people were able to do group sessions or were available. So we picked this time for everyone as a default. If you can't make Thursdays at 8 p.m., you can switch that up, and I'll talk about that later on. Throughout the week, this is kind of the major things that comes up that you should expect. On Mondays, we open up the weekly updates for you to start submitting them. And then we also do a Monday AMA inside of the forums. We record the live lecture at an office on Wednesday mornings, and then your weekly update is due by 4 p.m. on Wednesday Pacific time. If you don't submit it by then, you won't be able to be matched up for a group session. We need to have that deadline to give us enough time for our algorithms to run. And then the video lecture is released for those people that didn't attend the live recording session uh that will be released on youtube thursdays at noon and then we have the group sessions that are scheduled uh thursday at 8 p.m and then on fridays we do an ama also in the forums. Here are the important deadlines just to re-emphasize them. Wednesday is 4 p.m., Wednesday at 6 30 p.m. This is when the algorithm sort of locks the groups down so you can't change your time or be asked to be put into a different group after this time period. Thursday at 12 p.m. we release the video lectures on YouTube, 8 p.m. local time is when group sessions start. What's in our software? So again, we have the weekly updates and the group sessions, but we also have lectures, the meetups, the directory, the forums, the library library and the deals as you can see there's only two things that are required for you to use in our software all the rest of stuff is optional stuff but these are the eight things I'm going to go over for the rest of this presentation. Weekly updates. We start asking you Mondays at 12 a.m. The update is about the progress that you made in the previous week. We do ask you to tell us about your goals for the upcoming week, but for the most part, we're asking you to analyze the last week's work. It should take about 15 minutes. It should not take longer than this. If you're getting stressed out about this, you're doing it wrong. They're due Wednesdays by 4 p.m. and you can find them under the My Updates tab. Here's some tips to help you with your weekly update. You got to be honest. If the number is zero in terms of progress made on your key metric, whether it's revenue or engagement you need to write down zero don't change your metric to something that is not as important okay if you do that you will not help yourself and you're not tricking us uh you want to be concise again it shouldn't take that much time you want to be really good at synthesizing and summarizing your experience so that way you can learn from it quickly later on if you are before launch we're gonna ask you how many weeks until you are able to launch and some people think that's a ridiculous thing because some people believe that it's gonna take them months and months or even a year to get to launch and well we want you to internalize starting right now is that launch does not mean the polished thing that you feel comfortable sharing with the press and investors it is a thing that you can finally put in front of users and have them start using it so if you're at that stage then go ahead and launch and if you're before that stage we actually think it should not take more than one week or two for you to get that ready and we'll talk about that and week twos lecture 99% of you should be tracking revenue so if you are launched there's two different types of metrics there's revenue metrics or engagement metrics and almost all of you are in the category of being like I'm eventually making money sooner rather than later and so you should be using those revenue metrics the only companies that are tracking engagement metrics are ones who have to build a large audience before they can start collecting money so Facebook is a good example they had to build a lot of engagement and users before they were able collecting money. So Facebook is a good example. They had to build a lot of engagement in users before they were able to turn on an advertising platform. So if you are not in that category, then you will not be tracking, or you should not be tracking, engagement metrics. And then you should always be talking to users. So we actually ask you, how many users did you talk to, and what did you learn from them,? And what did you learn from them? Or what insights did you learn from them? Whether you're launched or before you are launched. And that is because that is the best way to make sure that you are building and making something people want, which is our motto at Y Combinator. This is what that update form looks like. There's additional stuff that is shown to you if you check off that you are launched profile please complete your profile keep the company updated and add your co-founders if you haven't already to your company the reasons you want to do this is because it affects the matching algorithm when you're assigned for groups we sign you based on your location we sign you based on your vertical we sign you based on whether you are a company team or a single founder and so you want to make sure all that is accurately filled out right now i know a lot of you when you register you just fill that you know dummy data or filler information but you don't want to have that before this first group matching begins and then different features available to you when you're searching the directory so again you want to make sure that these are filled out accurately this is what it looks like you click on your face in the sidebar to access three these three tabs group sessions uh so they start at Thursday at 8 p.m. local time don't worry we will send you emails with all the information as we go through every single week so it's not like you have to do all the heavy lifting here just make sure that you're accepting emails from startup school at Y Combinator comm these group sessions are done over video using our software. So some tips, if you have multiple co-founders and you are located in the same city, try to share one video connection. That'll sort of make it a lot smoother. Try to do them from a desktop computer and then from a broadband Wi-Fi connection. I know not everyone is able to do this, but if that is something that you are able to do, that will give you the best possible experience since it's video chat. Remember that you have to submit a weekly update to participate in a group session, so make sure you do that on Monday. Ideally, when we send that out, but definitely by Wednesday at 4 p.m. You can request a different time than 8 p.m. on Thursday. You cannot request a different day. It's only on Thursday. If you pick a different time, you will match up with other companies in a different time zone and probably not close to you by proximity. So that's just something to keep in mind. The algorithm is run at 4 30 p.m. so 30 minutes after the lap the updates are due for the week and then it will send you on an email to say like hey does this look good to you are you going to be available for a group session what do you talk about for a group session what do you talk about in a group session every week you're gonna do the same thing you're gonna intro yourself you're gonna intro what the company does we call this a one-liner YC you're gonna share last week's progress very quickly this should take no more than 30 seconds to a minute what were your biggest obstacles and what are your goals for next week the big goals then it just basically opened up the discussion and then at the end you're able to provide anonymous feedback through the software of the other companies one-liners and pitches and so there's three questions that we ask you to rate people on is do you understand what the company's building based on the one-liner are you excited about the problem that they're working on and that does this seem like the kind of team that you would want to work with and that way you're able to get feedback from lots of different people about how clear you are about your solution, about whether what you're working on excites or entices other people, and whether you're giving off the kind of energy or you're the kind of team that other people can see as being exciting or compatible. And so one thing to keep in mind is you don't get access to your feedback unless you provide feedback to others. So it's super valuable. When we ran these test group sessions, people really loved it. And so please keep that in mind. About the groups and matching. Group sizes are between five and eight companies. If you did start up school last year, this is very, very different. Last year, we had like 20 companies that you got matched up with, and you worked with them every single week. The problem with that format was that people sort of trailed off over time, and then the later group sessions actually got worse over time, which we did not want to replicate. So we did smaller group sizes. We match you based on all these different characteristics automatically. And then if you're a single founder who stated in their profile that you're looking for a co-founder, all the other people in those group sessions are other single founders looking for co-founders. And then every week you'll match up with different companies. And remember, these are companies that are submitting their weekly update. And so over and then every week you'll match up with different companies and remember these are companies that are submitting their weekly update and so over the course of the program you will get to meet with between 50 to 80 startups have lots of different practice gets lots of different feedback from them build up a connection with people that are close to you that are working in your same vertical or making the same amount of progress. And what's going to be sort of awesome about this is we think this will result in, like, as you do the group sessions, it's going to get better and better over time. So the last group session will be one of your best ones versus it being worse and worse over time. Lectures. Okay, we've got 20 lectures planned by the illustrious YC partners we record those on Wednesdays at 9 a.m. we do open it up to startup school participants to attend in person when we record those most of those are in San Francisco there's a little bit of a first come first serve for that. You can look out for those emails a week before we film those. We release the video live to everyone else in the public Thursdays at 12 p.m. We will also do some bonus lectures and workshops. All lectures will be followed by a Q&A. And then one thing that we changed is made sure all lectures are 20 minutes or less. I think that's sort of more appropriate for the YouTube generation and we'll make sure that we are focused on giving you in a concise way and efficient way information that is tactical that is practical and something that you're going to be able to use right away hopefully. These are the locations of the lectures so July and August we're doing them at this YCSF office and then in September we're taking startup school on the road and so that's why they're located in other cities. Meetups. So one thing we did that's new this year is that we're organizing events for startup school participants and cities in all around the world to meet one another and we're going to have YC partners there, we're going to have YC partners there. We're going to have YC alum there. And then we're going to do just like giant Q&A and maybe have some discussions about the lectures and just give you an opportunity to feel like you're not alone and meet other people. They're going to happen on evenings between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. They'll usually be on Saturdays and you should check the schedule you'll find that under the events section on the sidebar here are the list of cities we're super excited about these we'll probably add some more start-up school meetups after start-up school is over and so that's gonna be like the wonderful thing we'll have about this is that we'll continue doing these live meetup events if they end up being really popular and then anyone who's done SERP school will have access to being able to participate in them when possible. One thing I want to keep in mind is I do not think that you should spend a ton of money or time trying to make it to one of these meetup events if you're accepted. We're going to try to make sure that it's meant for locals. And really, I want you to spend as much time working on your startup rather than commuting. So heads up on that. Directory. All right. So this is a new thing that we've built with software. Thanks to Kyle. It helps you find other companies. You can filter by name, description, the vertical, and the proximity thanks to Kyle. It helps you find other companies. You can filter by name, description, the vertical, and the proximity to your city. All companies from your group session. So whenever you do a group session, those five to eight companies, what we will do is make those available inside of the directory so you can easily find those and you don't have to exchange contact information after a group session. And if you're looking for a co-founder this is where you'll be able to filter by other co-founders who are also looking so this will be super valuable to you especially since there's 16,000 single founders 8,000 of you are self-proclaimed technical founders but there's also 8,000 that are non-technical. So it's almost like there's one for each one of you and hopefully you will find one another. There's also 2,800 female single founders in the directory. You can't search by just females. We decided that might result in some other adverse effects that might be unwanted but I want you to know that there's gonna be a lot of people in there looking to find some kind of magic one thing I want you to keep in mind is not to spam the directory you will be banned from all YC events if you're caught doing this unfortunately we already had some people abusing the system. This is what the directory feature looks like. Here's some tips I want to give to you about what you should expect from this co-founder matching and searching system. Do not expect that you're going to have a co-founder by the end of the program. I'm not saying it's impossible, but I actually think that is not your expectation. What you should hopefully be able to do is talk to a ton of other people that are in similar situations, have the same shared risk profile, and hopefully just start conversations. profile and hopefully just start conversations. Start sharing favors and seeing who are people that you might want to like do a side project with or work on a feature with or just help out. And then during that blossoming of that small exchange of favors, you might start having the conversation to see like, hey, I like to spend a lot of time with this person. I like making stuff with them. Maybe we can start entertaining the idea of being co-founders. So again, during the course, I imagine that's probably not going to happen. So you should set your expectations on just meeting, talking with people, seeming helpful, getting inspiration, getting support from one another, and then seeing where that might carry you after the program. The forums. So again, it's usually the most underutilized resource I've seen in startup school, but it is one of the most valuable things that we have in the actual YC program. So I just want to spend some time on this. When you post to the forums, the only rule I really have is make sure that it's a post that's going to help the community. Don't have posts that are purely selfish for yourself. Don't just promote. Don't just have odd discussions. It should be something that the community would benefit from. Even if it's other people answering a question or problem that you might have, if those answers you could see as something that will help other people, great, that should be your guideline. If you're an expert, try to go through the forums and help other people. One of the things that's going to be nice about our forms is that we actually do customize emails and digest based on your level of expertise and so I'll explain a little bit about that in a second you want to search before you post therefore you're not posting duplicate content and all that stuff gets aggregated in a nice way don't spam or scrape anything in startup school it ruins our resources but also it's a waste of your time to do things like that and we organize amas these are very very popular posts in the start school forums on mondays and fridays we either ask uh different experts from from the yc alumni or we'll have panels of people to answer questions and if you want to launch your company to the startup school community then you start show startup school discussion forum or if you need technical support help like programming or engineering questions use the engineering channel overall try to ask the forum for help because out of 28,000 founders you guys are experts in all the different types of categories so we have like 9,000 engineers, 6,000 people who are good at product, 4,000 people who have experience doing operations, 2,000 salespeople, 1,300 designers, and 1,100 scientists. And so as a result, the odds are there's someone who has some kind of experience, some kind of hack or tool that can help and answer your question. And so in the forums is where you should utilize that expertise. This is what those forums look like. They're super great. The library. So this is pretty straightforward. It's all our written content written by YC partners, alumni and experts we trust. They're organized by topic and stage of the startup. We have no required reading in startup school, but I really recommend you taking the time to go through the articles, especially when you're stuck on one of those sort of topic areas. I always find it enlightening. Every time I go back and read old PG essays, I always glean something new out of it that I forgot about from before. And so hopefully you will be able to use this newly organized wisdom to your benefit. We're constantly updating it with content from YC. So make sure you use it. Deals. Steven, the batch director, has killed it for you guys. He's crushed it with getting over $30,000 worth of deals and credits for you startup school companies. And they are from good companies, AWS, Google, Microsoft, Brex, Stripe, et cetera. And some of the deals actually get even better and sweeter if you graduate from the program. And again, we make it really easy for you and so if you graduate more free stuff for you do not share the deals with others or they could be revoked so basically these are for the startup school community do not share them with others this is what that looks like you can find it in the sidebar all right whoo that's all the software here are your next steps. Submit your weekly update. Kyle's probably already sent you an email. You got to do it by Wednesday so that you can be part of the group session. Start this week on the right note. If the numbers are zero, if you are not launched, if you haven't talked to any users, that is okay. Just write that down. And then recommit yourself to make sure that that's not what's going to be put out for the next week. Update your profile, your company, and add co-founders if you need to do that. Then browse through the forums, the library, and the deals. Look through the directory. See who else is also closer around you and see if there might be stuff that you might want to participate with informally or not. On Thursday we're launching our first lecture and group sessions. We're really really excited about Start at School 2019. I'm so thankful and humbled about so many people participating in this program. And I can't wait to show you what we've been working on. Good luck and I'll see you out there. Bye.