 Hey, good morning. Thank you. We have a lot to do today, so I'd like to get my part out of the way as quickly as possible. Good morning again, and welcome to our second day of Startup Investor School. My role is a little bit more, but not much more, than telling everyone not to park over there, so don't park over there. There's other parking. Apparently there's a lot of parking behind 335. There's parking here, and there's parking on the street. Or, you know, there's these great services called Uber and Lyft. They work really well, too. Or, you know, there's this great services called Uber and Lyft. They work really well, too. So we had our, you know, startup growing pains yesterday. A few things went a little bit wrong. The toilets backed up, of course. The coffee was lukewarm. And the live stream was almost invisible. Maybe that was actually a feature since I was the first person talking and it got better after that. I think we've corrected all those. I can at least testify to the fact that the coffee is now hot. Hopefully the toilets are working. But I think we've got that figured out. So as a reminder, can you have questions out in live stream world, you can tweet them to YCSIS or with hashtag YCSIS. There's also now a Slack channel for those of you who are here in person. I think you've all been invited. You can ask questions. There's a Slack channel for just communications between you guys and a Slack channel for questions. There's a Slack channel for just communications between you guys and a Slack channel for questions. You can ask questions and then upvote those questions and we will hopefully get to some of them time willing. I will also go through all the questions afterwards and try to do a piece answering the questions that I can answer. So there will be wine questions that I can answer. So there will be wine and beer on Thursday. That's my big announcement. Yes, wine and beer. Small amount of time for networking for you guys. I don't know how much time, but I guess it depends on how much wine and beer there are for that. There was some really great feedback, helpful feedback from you guys. Probably the biggest thing everyone said is, boy, we'd really like to have more community, and we'd really like to be able to network. Mark and a few others sent me more detailed information about how we can do a better job of helping you all network. We get that. So, so far, we have a Slack channel and we'll think about that. I don't know how much progress, how much change we'll make during this version of Startup Investor School, but we really appreciate that feedback and we obviously take it really seriously. I will point out, as Sam said yesterday, that one of the worst things you can do as an investor is to be sheep. Don't follow other investors. The best investment decisions you'll make are the ones that other people aren't making. Like, you know, when people come by with really stupid ideas like, you know, having air beds in someone's home after a conference. Stupid idea, right? No one's going to invest in that one except for you and then you'll make a billion dollars and then you can laugh. So we covered a little bit about, you know, Sam's introduction and then a lot more about safes and how people do startup investing. We're gonna cover more today on the how, so I'll get back to that in a sec. Just a quick word on equities versus safes. It's a very complex, on the surface it seems like a simple topic. As you heard yesterday, it's actually rather complex. Why would you do a safe? Well, because it's simple, it's easy, it's fast, and it's cheap. It's better for founders. But there's a little hair. We admit that. It's sometimes hard to know what happens with the dilution. There's tools. Angel Calc is linked on the site, but we'll also put up, we don't have it up yet, but we will put up a spreadsheet for those of you who are more comfortable with old-fashioned tools, and you'll be able to model cap tables and conversions. It's a weird conversion. It's circular, and so, yeah, it's kind of bizarre, but we actually do have a spreadsheet that helps you figure that out. So dilution can be a little weird to understand, and it is important to understand it both for founders and obviously for investors as well. Okay. So with that, we're going to get to the topic today. And I am actually really excited myself to listen today because hopefully I'm going to learn something about how to be a better investor because I have made many mistakes. And if you guys want to corner me later, I can tell you about a few dozen mistakes that I have made. So the topic really today is overall how to make smart investing decisions. How do you do that? Well, it's simple. All you have to do is make correct predictions about the future. Easy, right? Well, the way you start off deciding whether to invest is you find companies you'll meet, you want to, you think you're interested in, and meet with them. So our very first presenter is my friend and partner Dalton Caldwell, who is a founder of a couple of companies. I'm him in app.net. He's been a partner at YC for four years now. He knows a lot about many things. My favorite quote from Dalton, because it's one of the few I could find, but it's a good one, is if someone tells a coherent story with the beginning, middle, and end, explaining what their product is, who wants it, what it does? Just that. So here's Dalton Caldwell to talk about founder meetings. Thank you. Hi, how's it going? So I'm going to be talking about founder meetings and process. So this is the, we're going to break down how you think about making investments and how tactically to do it. And we have lots of examples of, you know, maybe not the best approach, the naive approach. We'll talk about those. So let's get into it. Let's talk about the first principles. Everyone needs a process. Even if your process is, I have no process, I've never done this before, and I don't know what I'm doing, that is in fact a process, I would suggest. So I would encourage you and what we're going to talk about over the next few slides is to think about how you make a simple, simple, simple process for yourself just to get started with on how you make investment decisions, right? How you choose who to invest in, how much to invest, all this good stuff. It's good to have the process. It's good to have some sense of what your process funnel is, and I'll talk about what that means in a second. And I would argue one of the most important parts of a process is the face-to-face meeting. The face-to-face meeting is pretty much where everyone that's done a lot of investing, that's the meat and potatoes of how you tend to make investment decisions. You do a bunch of qualification, and then the face-to-face meetings are where you decide whether you're actually going to invest or not. So we'll talk a bit about face-to-face meetings as well. Okay, so here's a very basic process funnel. It's just like a sales funnel, right? You're gonna have some leads. This is people that you might want to invest in. It's maybe things that you read in the press. It's people you see at demo day, very straightforward. You have intros. These are folks that you actually have some introduction to and you have some exposure to the company. You do some qualification. For instance, is this even in an industry that I'm interested in? Is this something that I'm excited about funding? Does this fit with whatever kinds of companies I said to myself that I wanted to fund? So that's some very basic qualification. Then you have some decision making process, which is how do I decide whether I'm a yes or a no, which is actually quite tricky. And then finally the last bit is actually making the investment and closing the deal. So again, very straightforward, just like a sales funnel if you've done sales before. But it's worth thinking about your investment process this way. Because again, if you're not, if what you're doing is saying, well, I don't know. I'm going to take some meetings and maybe. And you have a very wishy-washy approach, you're probably not going to make optimal investment decisions. So here's an example of a process funnel. The first thing is it's actually good to think about what your budget is. I don't know if other folks have already talked about this or will talk about this, but if you don't know how much you want to invest and what your budget is, you're probably going to be making suboptimal decisions. So it's good to think here's how much I'm willing to invest across a bunch of startups beforehand versus being like, well, you know, I have some money saved away. And I was thinking about maybe doing something else with it. But I'm going to meet with some startups. And maybe if three or four of them can convince me it's good, then I'll invest in them. That's a really tricky thing to do if that's the way you think about it. Because you're going to end up negotiating against yourself. And there's a good chance you'll end up in this wishy-washy maybe land. And wishy-washy maybe land is just not a great place to be as an investor. So say you decide, OK, I have a $500,000 budget per year that I'm going to allocate to this asset class. And I've talked to my wealth manager, whatever, and everyone's on board with this. I've talked to my significant other and this makes sense to make this financial decision. And so the way I'm going to stage out this is do a certain number of investments. You know, if you're going to do it off YC Demo Day, it's pretty straightforward. You show up to Demo Day and you pick the five companies you would want to invest in. But if you don't want to do it through YC Demo Day, you want to allocate it in other ways. Put that on a calendar. and then think about what is the pass rate of your process funnel going to be. For instance, in this case, that's about picking five of your favorite 20, right? So you probably don't want to meet with 150 companies if you're only going to be making five investments. Probably not a good use of your time or the company's time, so you wanna do a little bit more on the qualification step. On the other hand, if you wanna make five investments and you only meet with five companies, probably you're not going to be making optimal investment decisions. So I would think a little bit, I'd work backwards from what your financial commitment to making investments are to how you decide how many leads to qualify, how many meetings to actually do. Still with me? All right. So let's talk about how you actually make a decision once you've gone through this super basic funnel bit. The most important thing is to have a process in your own mind about how you will make decisions. You need to negotiate with yourself of what does it mean to make the decision to actually write the check, right? What is my burden of proof to be convinced by the founder that I want to invest in their company? There's some criteria that you should decide ahead of time. And again, it's good to actually think about these things versus ending up in this wishy-washy land where you're doing meetings and you don't even know what you're looking for. You're not even sure. You also want to think about how many meetings or interactions it will take for you to end up with a yes or no. Something that we see a lot as an anti-pattern in investor behavior is folks that just do meeting after meeting after meeting after meeting and don't ever make a decision. And that's actually worse for founders than just saying no, right? The investor that just wastes a ton of time and feels like they're just on the edge but never say yes, that's very hard for a founder to deal with that. And so it's actually better off just to figure out what your process is. And if you're maybe, that's probably no. Tell them no and move along. That's a much better way to run a process like this. The other thing that sometimes happens is someone will say yes, but not actually say the amount they're going to commit or they will say yes and then change their mind. And please do not do that. This is very important stuff. If you're new, maybe you're not used to making decisions. But once you make that decision that you say yes and you commit, you are fully committed. And trying to back out of the deal after committing is a huge faux pas and will have far-reaching negative reputational effects. So once you reach this decision, you're in and that's that. So let's talk about what the criteria are to make investments. It's really good if everyone has different investment criteria. That's really excellent. We want everyone to have different investment criteria. Otherwise, what's the point of having a bunch of investors that just be, there'd just be a computer that does the math, you feed in the four inputs, and boom, that's a yes or a no, and then the money goes in, right? This is an example of sort of a wisdom of crowds type thing where a bunch of people with different criteria are much more likely to find really interesting outlier companies and generate great returns versus if everyone has precisely the same criteria. So what's some examples of criteria? The most straightforward one is the team. The team is pretty important to YC. That's definitely part of our investment criteria. But you can make your own decision about just how important the team is. And what does that mean? How important is it that there are really strong programmers on the team? How important is it that they have relevant experience in the industry they're in? How important is it that you have some touch points that someone else you know knows them and vouches for them? So there's a number of different ways that you can create in your own personal process, different criteria around team. Market size is pretty important to a lot of folks. For other folks, market size doesn't matter. Who cares? Because they'll figure it out later, right? If you did a market size on the original Airbnb thing, it'd be very hard to determine what the market of airbeds were, and you would probably say no if you were purely looking at market size. Similarly, something like Uber, the market size of people calling black cars was very, very small at the time, and so you could have easily, you know, disqualified that just on that criteria alone. Traction, there's some investors that say, I invest when there's no traction. There's some investors that invest lots of traction. So think about where you come in on the traction criteria. The other thing is that a lot of folks decide no on investments if they don't have the relevant expertise. We have a number of bio companies or hard tech companies at Demo Day. And a lot of folks just hard pass on all of them because they don't have the relevant expertise. And that's actually OK. But it's good for you to know, am I willing to invest in something that I have absolutely no background in? Or am I just going to stay away from that and stick to what I know? It's good if everyone has different ideas around that. But it's worth thinking about beforehand how much you feeling like an expert in the field matters. And then finally the last bit, investment terms. Some folks say, oh, I only pay very low prices. Some folks require certain amounts of structure in the deal or certain ownership goals and all the other good stuff. And that's okay if that's what your actual model is. But if you have no idea here, it's worth thinking about a little bit how much the actual terms matter. What often happens, you already heard group think, you'll hear a lot of us say this again, is the people's actual investment criteria is the thing that everyone else talks about and seems to think is going to work is the thing they want to invest in. And I would again suggest that this is not the optimal way to make investment decisions. We see a lot. So the other thing that's not great about groupthink, just add a little bit more color on that, is it creates non-optimal returns. Everyone will just try to plow into the same deal and the company will end up being overfunded if it's perceived by everyone, if it fits everyone's criteria. And it's actually not super great for the company if it gets overfunded. Investors tend to get a little bit grouchy if they can't get into the deal and they all want to invest in it. And as Jeff just mentioned, really good investments are often contrarian or unfashionable or somehow are deeply unappealing to everybody else. Those are the really good ones, is that you see something that other folks don't. And the fact that it's deeply unappealing is what creates such a great opportunity for you. And so again, why am I spending all the time bringing this up? It's worth thinking about what your process is and knowing what it is versus having your process be, I don't know, I'm going to go ask 10 people what they think is good and whatever they, what's ever on their list of what they want to invest in is going to be on my list too. And I'm going to do that for everybody and then end up with this like meta group think list. That's how a lot of people from what I can tell, do it, and I would not recommend that. Something super important in making investments is having personal conviction. You have to really believe to make this kind of bet. You know, you're putting the money in, and you're probably never getting it back. There's no undo button on making an investment. And if you do not have the personal conviction, and even when you say yes, it's sort of half-hearted, you're going to have a very hard time as an investor. So one thing that we hear a lot of, especially for folks that haven't done much of this, is they say, okay, I'm in once you go find the rest of the round. And this is the cheapest of cheap shots that you can possibly do. Because what you're actually saying is I would like an option that's guaranteed in your round. But I do not believe you can actually raise it. If you prove me wrong and you raise it and all the other investors invest, then I'm in. And I can understand why, from the perspective of an investor, this feels like a super clever ninja move. But holy cow, is this not beloved by founders and not great from a reputational perspective. These are the folks, these areational perspective, right? These are the folks, these are the fair weather friends. These are the folks that didn't actually believe in you. And all they want is the right to get in if the deal happens to be hot because everyone else invests in it, right? And so perhaps you've said things like this or perhaps this is, you know, things that have happened in the past. I just, I wouldn't, I wouldn't recommend phrasing this way. I would just say the honest answer, if you're in this situation, which is, I'm worried about the financing risk, so I'm a no. But let's talk later if more financing momentum happens. Because then you're being explicit that the answer is actually no, and not like, oh, yeah, I'm in. Just go raise $2 million, and I'll be the last check-in right that is not a great move and One other thing That's kind of interesting if you think about investor mentality is you have to be willing to look stupid and be wrong on these things to look stupid and be wrong on these things. If the only investments you make are ones that are super defensible and make sense to everyone and could never be made fun of because it's such a fantastic business, you're going to be missing out on a lot of investments. And by having the personal conviction that you know why you're investing in the company, you should be okay with the fact that people are like, oh, well, what companies have you invested in? And they're like, wait, you invested in the airbed company? Like, what did they tell you? Like, why did you invest in the airbed company, right? You have to be willing to take that potential embarrassment that you're like, yeah, I did invest in the airbed company and feel good about it. And so this is one of the reasons why conviction is so important, versus just creating a portfolio of things that you think seem like, that will make you look good from a reputational perspective. So in terms of some anti-patterns on decision making that we see a lot, one of them is just going really, really slow, disappearing for weeks, not responding to emails, not following up, not responding to emails, not following up. Not great. Another anti-pattern is you're not really sure whether to invest or not, so you ask them to meet your friend. You're like, hey, meet my friend. And you can keep doing this over and over and over again, like, oh, meet my other friend. And that's a way to defer making the decision-making process. That's not great. The other thing is flip-flopping where you're saying yes and then you're like, oh, actually, how about no or how about you need to do this other thing and you're sort of moving the goalposts over and over again. As I said a second ago, the way you should think about it is if you're not a yes, you're a no. And you want to stay out of this middle flip flopping I'm not really sure land. And that's where you're going to feel most of the time. I know that's where I am most of the time when I make investment decisions. You're just kind of in this, oh, yeah, this is maybe good. And you want any kind of signal you can to get out of that. And one of the pieces of advice we tell founders around fundraising, because they get confused so much by people seeming interested in their company and not investing, is we tell the founders, if they're not saying yes and giving you money, it's a no. Because so many founders that we meet with when we ask them how it's going or how fundraising is going, they say, well, there's a lot of interest. Okay, well, how many people have written checks? Well, they're very excited. They seem to really like the business. And that is all the recipe for a failed fundraise, is a lot of people telling you how much they like your business and how, like, exciting it is to talk to you. If no one is writing checks, it means it's not going well. And so from the flip side, from your side of the table, if you're just meeting with a lot of folks and being very excited and doing a ton of meetings, but never actually saying yes, you are telling them no whether you realize it or not. And then in terms of the actual meetings, the best way to get this conviction is just to do meetings in person versus reading a deck or asking other people what they think. So let's talk about meetings. Very basic, but... Just scheduling meetings in a non-painful way will put you ahead of the pack from a lot of other angel investors. Being on time and picking a convenient location will put you ahead of the pack versus most angel investors. I don't know why this is. So I would just suggest part of being founder-friendly and getting a good reputation is just being easy to work with and not coming across like someone that's just like thinks they're super awesome and important all the time and wants to just like rub it in the founder's face how important they are. So this is like very basic stuff, but I can't stress enough that doing these is definitely worth doing if you want to have a good reputation as a good investor or someone people want to work with. In terms of things to ask in meetings, it's always good to start from the basics. To this day, this is how we do YC interviews, and we make all of our investment decisions, is we ask, we always start with the basics. What does your company do? Who's on the team? What progress have you made? You know, how much have you raised? What terms? You can get really complicated and complex on what you think you should ask. And maybe that's okay at the end of the meeting. But I would suggest always starting these meetings with first principles questions and making sure you understand the basics. Because it's not maybe you already saw their deck or maybe you've already read about the company. It's not necessarily about learning what you didn't already know. It's about hearing the founder tell their own story and their own words. And that's such a good reason to start from these first principles is you sort of want to forget everything you know and just hear the founders tell their own story. And so this is how I'd always suggest starting a meeting is super basic questions and then only at the end do we get into advanced complex mode on the business. If you want to do follow-up meetings, say you're not a yes or no after the first meeting and you want more information, dig deep on the things that would give you either conviction to say yes or no. Don't waste time rehashing irrelevant stuff. And one thing to look for in your own gut is if you feel more or less convinced the more you talk to the founder. Because it could be you hear about an idea, you see their demo day pitch, and it seems great and you're a yes. And the more you talk to them, the more you're getting lukewarm. That is not a good sign. That feels like a no, right? But if it seems kind of like mediocre and the more you talk to them, the more excited you get, that feels like it's erring towards a yes, right? And so that's one good thing In terms of how do you evaluate was that a good meeting or not, are you excited or energized and amped up about the business and, you know, just feeling awesome after you talk to the founders or are you feeling kind of like weirded out about it? A really important question to ask is do you trust the founders? Trust is super important. And even if they're saying everything that's right, but you come away with a feeling of not sure if they're telling you the truth, that is definitely a red flag and a good sign that maybe you should disqualify them from your personal criteria. Because it's possible for someone to say all the right things, but your gut reaction is perhaps it's not all true. Would you want to work at their company hypothetically? Would you want them to be your boss? Can you imagine them running a really large company someday and having lots of people reporting to them? That's a good criteria to think about. And if things go not great, which they often do, are you willing to go through the hard times with these particular folks you're talking to? That's a good thought experiment as well. And so these are all the sorts of thought experiments that I would do after a meeting to decide if you're getting more or less conviction. In terms of bad meetings, one thing to think about is pretend that the investor meeting is your job interview where they're interviewing you for a job and not the other way around. There's often a lot of power dynamic things of making it feel like the founder is like an employee, I guess, and they are not an employee, right? You really want to feel like you're interviewing for the job of investor at their startup and not that they're interviewing for the job of potential underling that wants your money. And again, just bad meetings have a lot in common. A very common thing we hear a ton from founders is that investors that just look at their phone the entire meeting or otherwise act super distracted. Not recommended. Very basic. But holy cow is that common. That happens in a double-digit percentage of meetings. So just basic thing. Would not recommend. And then the other thing is sometimes investors try to make themselves the center of the attention where they'll tell stories about how great they are and all the people they know and all this other good stuff. Just remember the point of the meeting is for you to listen to the founder, to decide whether or not to invest. You can build a rapport with them, but to the extent that you make the meeting about yourself, I would just argue that's both counterproductive and probably not a great way to get a positive reputation among founders talking to each other. Another thing just to mention here is sometimes folks, especially if they're new investors, they wanna differentiate by doing a lot of value-added services. And so they'll use these meetings to just give a ton of product advice and tell the founder how they're doing everything wrong and how they need to redesign the website and like they need to change the name and they need to think their marketing strategy through and all this other stuff. And the founder kind of has to take it because they're meeting with them and they want to raise money. But man, if you just blow them up with tons of advice on how to run their company for them, that is not received well was what I would say. Also if you provide a ton of advice on how their fundraising process is done and they should do it differently, like oh, you're raising on the wrong price and you should be doing this and you should never raise on a safe or whatever it is, that is not helpful. If you write them a check, then your advice is a lot more valued. But if you're just meeting with someone and it's a no and all you're doing is telling them how everything they're doing is wrong, that is not value add. Right? Another thing that sometimes people do when they're trying to be value add is just do a ton of introductions. Like, you do one meeting, you don't invest in the company and you introduce them to like 20 people to seem really value add. That is not value add. That is wasting their time. The point here is you can easily do too much. And that's actually worse than just being straightforward. Right? And sometimes people are trying to differentiate themselves and create a name for themselves. But this kind of stuff can really backfire on you if you're too heavy handed with it. Decision communication. How do you say no? What often happens with investors, much like dating, is they ghost the other party. They just never follow up. You never hear it. You do a meeting with an investor, and maybe the founder follows up with the investor. Hey, how's it going? What are the next steps? Never a response again. That is not great. I understand that it happens a lot, but would not recommend it. I would suggest you directly tell the founders that you will not be investing. If possible, if it's appropriate, give them some reasons. It's nice to know the reasons, but you don't necessarily have to. And the fact is, in this business, you're going to be saying no most of the time. It just is what it is. That's how the funnel works. And so you need to be prepared to know how to say no, to feel good about saying no, and get practiced at it, and make it part of the job. If there's something about saying no that makes you very uncomfortable and unwilling to do angel investing, I would suggest just breaking out of that habit. Avoidance alone is not great. How to say yes. Say the moment you have conviction and you want to invest, communicate that to them. Tell them how excited you are to work with them. We have the handshake protocol, which is covered on how to actually do this over email, so there's no misunderstanding. So follow that. And then get them the money. Sometimes things fall through where the investor says yes and then they ghost them for a while. And the money actually never gets closed. And the investor gets locked out of the round and there's a whole mess afterwards. So if you say yes and you follow the handshake protocol, just invest. Declare victory and move on. Sometimes people say yes but then they introduce a bunch of weird stuff alongside of it, so it's not actually a yes. So maybe if you're writing a huge check, you can consider doing a term sheet or price journal and things like that. But if it's a very small amount and you're just part of a large syndicate, don't make it hard. It's only going to foul up the process and often the founders will just push back on all of this stuff. So sometimes people do, especially when they're new angel investors, they try to ask for a bunch of extra stuff. Not great. Okay. So that's it for this bit. I think we're going to do an example meeting now. I have a company from the current batch who I already invested in, so I guess that's a little bit biased. We're going to do just an example investor meeting where I'm going to ask some questions. And once we're done with this bit,, we'll do the intro in the meeting. Okay. How's it going? So, first of all, just introduce yourself and tell us a little bit about what your company does. Okay. Does this work? Give it a sec. Try it now. Hello? Yep. Cool. Hey, I'm Ben. I'm founder of Necto, and Necto does ISP in a box. So we basically help people create internet service providers like Comcast or AT&T or what have you. Okay, so let's be super specific. So you make software. Yep. And it lets people start internet service providers. Exactly. And this is a little bit of context that I front have it. You simultaneously run your own internet service provider and you have the ability for anyone to create their own using your software. Right, exactly. So why we started doing this is the problem of what we see is people usually hate their internet providers, right? The lowest product score. And the reason why is usually people live under regional monopolies, right? Their internet is either coming from a national telecom or a small town has basically Comcast as the only option. And the reason for that is two things. It used to be very expensive to start an internet provider. And then the second part is it's actually really hard. The amount of knowledge that you need to start an internet provider is really high. And I went through this myself as I was trying to start my own. Which is when I realized, hey, the cost has come down dramatically. You can use wireless gears that can deliver gigabits of service. So with like $10,000, $20,000, you can start your own internet provider. So what you need is the knowledge, which is what we provide. And that's the part that can be skilled. So meta point, part of the reason I picked this company is this is actually kind of a complicated pitch. This is kind of a complicated business and it's inherently complicated. And so there's a way that I could immediately get distracted and start talking about, I don't know, hey, maybe you should rename the company. Like, I don't even know. But there's a million ways that I can end up down in the weeds before really even understanding what they actually do. And so what I'm going to do here is actually dig deeper and make sure that I completely comprehend what the company does. And hopefully folks do here. I think probably people pulled out, oh, it's some kind of ISP thing and, you know, probably little bits and pieces. But I would guess, based on what we've heard thus far, the mechanics of what they actually do has not completely landed for everybody. Is that true? Yeah. Okay. So let's dig deeper. What exactly have you, what do you have today? What is the current state of the company? Yeah. So we have our own internet provider that came out of beta January 22nd. And we've been onboarding customers on that. So you have your own ISP that you guys yourself started using your own software. Right, exactly. Okay. How many customers do you have live with that ISP? We have 47. Okay. And where is that located? That is in southern parts of San Francisco and Bayview, Hunters Point, Porto La, Excelsior, that area. Okay. So again, Meta, to zoom out, here's what we've learned. They're making some kind of ISP company. They have a first location in San Francisco. They have 50 customers for it. And it's live now. Okay. What did we learn? Okay. This is a real thing. They're live. They have customers. Are you guys some kind of experts? Like, how do you know how to start an ISP? We just did it ourselves. We figured out all the bits and pieces with help from basically community around because there are actually a lot of experts that are now retired. They're like the original dot-com people who are volunteers, I guess. Okay, so we kind of get that. So then what's the big idea? Why is this going to be a good company? Yeah, so what I have found is there are actual products that are out there that's basically an Internet provider in a box. So it comes with the hardware and software. But what it doesn't do is actually tell you how to use it, how to be successful with it, and how to actually start a thriving internet provider, which is every part that we will be helping out people who use our service. Okay, cool. So to zoom out a little bit, and again, because I'm familiar with the company, what you're saying is that it's really hard to start a new ISP. You guys are going to be able to build. You have these ISPs in a box so that anyone anywhere could start their own local ISP. Right. Okay. So now here's the important part. Why does that matter and why is this a good idea? So here's my context. A bunch of people have tried to start ISPs. There's Google Fiber. There's Web Pass. There's a bunch of money that's been put into this. This seems like a graveyard of bad startups. What the heck is special or different about what you're doing? Oh, yeah. So it's actually really cool, because just reaching out to the YC alumni community, a lot of people have been trying to start an ISP. And we're actually helping them out. And what they have done is they've taken out loans or put up their own buildings and their own communities where they gather their own customer and put in their own CapEx. And all we do is become their network operating center to help them set up. Okay, cool. So, again, what I pulled out of here, what I would be taking my notes or what I would continue to be pushing on is what you're saying is the big idea is that what made all these other startup ISPs not work is that you needed tons and tons of money to put fiber in the ground. And so you're saying by making the software to help people start ISPs locally, they'll put all the money up themselves and so that you could scale very quickly without having to raise hundreds of millions or billions of dollars to put in fiber. Right? That's... Correct. Okay. Right. Okay. And then what evidence do you have that that will actually work? That you can get people to use their software, use your software to start their own ISP and put up their own money? Yeah. So the evidence I have is we have two people who signed on as franchise. They have buildings in at least five cities that will be using us as a network operating center and will be powering their software, the landing page, their billing, and the customer management for all of that. Okay, cool. So, again, to zoom out, the version of this meeting that is a not great meeting is where I immediately get distracted or I immediately start asking questions, and I never even understand what they really do. Because, again, like I said earlier, this is a little bit complicated. There's several moving parts here. But I think my version of this that I can get the most excited about is I do think more ISPs are good. I know you agree. And the innovation of having in customers put in their own capital to create their own local ISPs could be really big. So one metaphor that I've talked about with a company in the past is in the same way that Uber doesn't actually own any cars and Airbnb doesn't own any physical property, you're going to be an ISP that doesn't actually own any routers or fiber, right? Right, we just own the rights to operate there, the exclusive right to operate their hardware. Okay, that sounds pretty good, right? So anyway, so this is sort of the line of thinking that got me convinced that this is actually really interesting. I can come up with a million reasons why this might not work, but this does feel like, in my opinion, a fresh take on it. And then I think last bit before we move out, what's your guys, why did you start the company? Like, what was your inspiration here? Why are you working on this? Yeah, so I mean, my inspiration was kind of the frustration with most people with their internet is, you know, it's 2017. Why does internet in 2018, well, I started last year. Sorry, sorry. Why is internet still a problem, right? And then you dig deeper and you realize it's not really a problem for large apartment buildings. It's only a problem for rural areas or suburbs, areas where there's regional monopolies. So how to combat this is to basically increase the competition in these areas. And there isn't competition, because it's actually really hard to start an internet provider. OK, cool. So again, zooming out one more time for everybody in the audience, this is not a company for everyone. But if you're excited about ISPs and excited about taking on Comcast, or you think it's the idea, you know, you'd like to start your own ISP, that's the sort of angel investor that's going to be like, wow, this is exactly what I'm looking for, right? And so it's okay if we think about our criteria. Every company is not going to seem appealing to everybody. But you want to ask the right questions to know if there's some bit of this to get really excited about. And so, yeah, I was convinced after talking to them, and, you know, sounds fun. So that's it for this bit. Let's say thanks. Thanks, man. Thanks, guys. Thanks. All right, so time for Q&A. Before I do that, I'm going to announce four cars that are in the parking lot. Yes, this is my job. There is a red Prius, license plate 5SJD123. A green Lexus. It says hand symbol. I don't know. And R-A-N, I don't know and R-A-N I don't know there's a green Lexus if you have a green Lexus a black Nissan 77XFY896 that sounds like too many letters and numbers and a black Tesla of course one Tesla 7VCT888 if those are your cars please everyone close your eyes T888. If those are your cars, everyone close your eyes. Please go move them right away. Thank you. Now, let's do some Q&A, and I will also, for streamers, be taking questions from YCSIS and from the Slack channel. All right, great. First, yeah, go for it, Matt. Yeah, that's... Repeat the question, please, Dalton. The question was, what do you do when you agree to invest and then you lose faith in the company? So there's some subtlety here. One, if you agree to invest, hopefully your investment closed immediately versus the commitment hanging on forever because that can be complicated. And then in terms of the actual things that happens, if the way that you lose faith in the company is what you find out is they're horrible at fundraising And in terms of the actual things that happens, if the way that you lose faith in the company is what you find out is they're horrible at fundraising and they're just going to go out of business, but they were like nice about it, then you lost your money. Congratulations. Welcome to angel investing. You can't get your money back just because someone didn't raise from other people. But if someone does something very, very, very bad, lies, there's reason, there's just reason to see that you were materially or deceived about the situation, then I think you want to figure it out on a case-by-case basis. I mean, that's what we do. Like in YC, we have a founder code of ethics, and we do enforce that at times. And it's for extreme cases of true deception on the other hand if someone that we invest in um just doesn't have a good company well that that's that's the breaks um and so to the extent that you ever experience someone that goes way beyond the line of what is a true breach of trust or conduct i think you want to yeah on a case-by-case basis, talk with the founders, talk with lawyers, and figure that out. And hopefully that will be rare. Hopefully that's rare. It's pretty rare. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yep. That's a great question. Okay, so the question was, how do you say no to someone if the actual answer is not, you know, not nice? I don't know. Like, if you just don't have faith in the people doing it. So this is tricky. I think you definitely want to say no. And I think you want to say something like I was not convinced that this is going to work given the current strategy. You shouldn't say I think you're a bad founder. Would not say that. But I think there's ways that you can convey that you just were not convinced in an honest way. Because that's basic. If the team cannot convince you, I mean, how do you say this, Jeff? Yeah, I think that's actually a great and one of the hardest questions. We actually struggle with this with YC all the time because sometimes we interview people and we think it's a great idea, but we just don't believe in the founders. And it's a great idea, but we just don't believe in the founders. And it's the last thing you want to tell someone. One, because you might be wrong and you shouldn't stab someone in the heart. Two, because that's not a good interaction, right? And let's just keep in mind, though, there are always a million reasons not to invest in a company. Most companies will fail. And it's a lack of your own imagination if you can't come up with a reason why you're not believing in their version of the future. And that's what you should communicate to them. I think the bottom line is every interaction with the founder should be as helpful to the founder as it possibly can be. And if you can't be helpful, then just don't say it. But if you can, if you can find some way to help them, even if the real reason is not that so much that, but it's still valid, I would use that. There's always something. Yeah, in the back. Yeah, you. So the question was what are the expectations for asking the founder for a deck or other data before the meeting? I think it depends on a case-by-case basis. But let me tell you, if it's like a regular YC company at demo day for the context we're talking about, I usually tell founders not to do that because it's a very quick meeting. Maybe the founders can send a one page or a quick overview, but you generally want to have the quick meeting. I think it's not, it doesn't do the companies, I'm saying this from the founder's perspective, it doesn't help a company to send decks to like 100 people and then have them just never reply because that's usually what happens. So to the extent that the investor is interested enough to ask for that info, I would be like, well, just get on a call with them or try to meet them first and then present the information. When you send people a ton of information without meeting them, it feels very low ROI from a founder perspective. But it's fine to ask for stuff and they can just say, hey, we don't really have that, which a lot of them probably don't. Yeah, back corner. Yep. So the question was milestone-based financings. So here's what I would say. For what it's worth, if it was a company that I was advising and an investor suggested that, I would say don't do that deal. But if there's a specific reason in the company that that makes sense, if these are the best terms that are available to the company, or perhaps it really makes sense, I think also if it was lots of money, maybe that would make more sense. But if it's a relatively small check, and I would consider 50K a relatively long check, and someone tried to put milestone-based payments, I would not tell the company that would be my first choice. And I would say maybe just get them to invest $25K now at the current terms, and then you'll circle back with them later versus actually doing a deal that contains milestone payments. Does that make sense? I'd rather do the simple deal now, and then there's an option to invest more in the future than to do a more complex deal today. Can I add something to that? Go for it. Yeah, the abstract milestone-based investments sound great, but what you're really doing is asking, as Fulton said, for an option to invest in the future. And I will always tell founders, if you like the investor, take the upfront money, but do not give them that option. All you can say is, like, okay, that's a great idea, but if we raise more money in the future, we'll talk to you and make no commitment that you have to talk. They can commit to giving you money all they want, but you do not have to commit to taking the money. And so actually, it's kind of a lose for the investor because you're guaranteed to get that 25. And if things go fantastically and you want to get more money in, too bad, you might not get that 25. And if things go fantastically and you want to get more money in, too bad, you might not get it in. Cool, yep. Yeah, you. So the question is, if you are not there in person, how does that affect your overall deal flow? I think that maybe video can be okay. And again, it depends on the check sizes. If you're writing relatively small checks and it's not a big deal to you, you certainly can use video calls to get some sense of it. But if this is really your bread and butter, I would suggest flying around to folks on a regular basis for maybe a large part of your deal flow, again, depending on your focus. And then it does make sense if you're locally present somewhere, you're probably going to be very helpful to those folks anyway as well. So you probably want to do a little bit of both. We do have a lot of investors that fly around the world and basically just show up at demo day and write checks and then disappear. And, you know, there's a place for that, right? Everyone doesn't have to do it the same way. Yeah, there's a place for that. Yes. So the question is, what do you do when you have an investment that you made and two or three years in, it's not dying, but it's flatlining? My understanding, we see a lot of this, is you just kind of got to ride it with them. Usually these companies can turn into something big. Maybe someday they buy the shares back. There's all these options. But there's really not much you could do. I would not recommend forcing them to sell or something like that. If you have a company that has a ten-year time horizon, that's kind of what you're signing up to when you make the investment. Even the companies that go really well, we are talking about a ten-year time horizon. PB is about to talk. A lot of the investments that he made in 2008, 2007 are still hanging out there. He's getting no liquidity from it. So at the end of the day, you don't have a ton of options, but I've seen founders, depending on the case by case, find a way to take care of their investors. Hey, Dalton, let me give you a couple of online questions. One is, how do you approach discussing competition during founder meetings? And sort of a related one was, how would you handle information asymmetry? And the example is if you have information that founders didn't share with you or someone in the network and founders didn't share that with you, okay? Okay, so the first question was competition. It's definitely good to ask about competition in a meeting, but there's certainly a way to talk about it that is perceived as rude by founders. So a good thing to think about is if they're in a competitive space, ask them, well, how are you going to win versus other folks? Who are the other parties that are in the market and what are they doing well and what are they not doing well? And try to aim for a very even keel conversation, usually if the founder is super defensive and flips out about it, that is a good red flag for you, right? That is a very good red flag if the person has a very hard time speaking on an even tone about competition or is unwilling to admit the competition either exists. So to the degree to which you can just ask very neutral questions about it and see where they take it, that's how I would get the most out of the competition question. And the second question was this asymmetry one. What was, can you, what were they saying? I realized as I was reading it that it was just a little bit incoherent. So I think the question is, if you know stuff somehow from your network that the founder doesn't know, how should you deal with that? Can we give an example? Do you have an example? Do you have an example? You seem to know what I'm talking about. Examples? Yeah, I mean, I guess the real question is if it's not clear to you whether you're allowed to say, like, let's say you know another company is about to launch that's going to be competitive, that's working in the same space. How should you deal with that? Yeah, generally speaking, I see folks do this sometimes where they have proprietary information because they work at a big company or something. And they know things are about to get really good or really bad on a startup and the founders don't know. I would generally keep that to myself because you can't, I can think of a million ways that can go wrong, but if that helps you inform your decision, then that's really good. That's an example of a differentiated decision-making process versus other folks. But to the extent that you, I think I would always advise to keep that to yourself. There's, if you tell the founders, you try to signal it to them in some way, there's so many ways that can go wrong, even if you do invest or don't invest. So I would try to just treat that as proprietary stuff to keep in your head and then use it to the extent you can make good decisions. Yeah. Okay, cool. Yes. Yep. Yeah. What do you do if you're an investor in a position where it's unclear, or basically you don't have a strong signal they're going to raise from a bunch of other people so ideally what you do is you're honest with them and you tell them that that's what you're worried about and that's not hey i'm in once you get other people it's you would you would say i am not comfortable investing right now because the amount of capital you need my check alone will not get you there. So let's brainstorm on how to, how you can either convince me to write the check now, because again, in the example of YC, we write everyone checks without anyone else being in, right? So either here's my criteria for you to convince me that I'm willing to take that risk to be the only check in, or here's when we, here's the milestones that I would want to see to have a further conversation. And being clear that that's basically a no until they do other stuff. Yeah, that's also a great question. And Dalton mentioned that what we tell founders, if an investor says, I'm going to invest, I love you, as soon as you get 900K of the 1 million that you're trying to raise, I'm in. And there's a quandary for investors because if you have a company and you give them $25,000, they could spend that in a month and then die. And it would be much better for you if they had a half a million dollars and then you gave them your $25,000. But here's the problem. By the time they get to a half million dollars, they might not take your $25,000. So you have a trade-off. You have to decide how convinced are you in this company, in these founders, that they will be successful fundraisers. That's one of the criteria. Will they be successful fundraising? That might be your only chance to get in. And it might be the $10 billion company that you just missed because you said, I wasn't sure they were going to raise more than $25,000. Hard place to put yourself in. That's why this job's hard, by the way. Yeah. Yeah. So, I have a question about mobile stuff. Yeah. And it's like, I actually said yes to a problem, and then I said, oh, okay, I Yeah. Yeah. But did it close? You said yes, and did they not close it? Okay. And did you do the handshake protocol? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So the question is, what do you do? There's two things here. What do you do if the founder is a little bit, asks for a lot, I guess? And the other thing is, why would someone be pushy to get the check wired? We definitely encourage founders to get the money wired from the investor. There's so many sad stories that we know where someone commits to invest and then disappears or never actually wires the money. And so we do encourage people to say, once the person is committed, get the money. It's very, very straightforward. So perhaps it's a completely reasonable thing to say. On the other hand, to the extent you can front load in your interactions with the founders to make sure you will get along with them and that their personality type fits with your personality type, that's a good thing to figure out before you make the investment. And so it could be there's some personality types that just aren't a good fit for you that are just higher maintenance. Okay, one more question please and then we're going to take a quick break. Yeah, we'll do you. The question is, how do we iterate on our process and learn from ourselves? We actually have a fairly complex process inside of YC. We keep track of everything we fund. We keep track of things we don't fund. We track their progress. We keep track of who does really well We keep track of things we don't fund. We track their progress. We keep track of who does really well and who doesn't do really well. And we take ample notes on everything. So we do a lot of reviewing our process, and we try to get better every batch to the extent that we can. I can't say, oh, it's just, you know, we throw AI at it, and the AI tells us what to invest. It's not that. It's really just literally looking through decisions and looking at our notes to understand, well, why do we say yes or why do we say no to that? And trying to pull out of that wisdom that we apply to future things. And so this is the thing that everyone says. The team comes first. Everyone says that. What does that mean? Well, that's something that we learn every batch through trial and error is sometimes we invest in really goofy ideas with really great founders and we make a lot of money. And sometimes we invest in really amazing seeming startup ideas with tons of traction and maybe the founders are trickier to work with or they're just aren't good at communicating their idea and we lose our money. And so every batch there's these same lessons that we learn over and over and over again. And I think that's how you build confidence in yourself as an investor, is you get enough times to iterate. And you actually have to lose money. You actually have to have some winners or losers to feel the pain. So we're going to take a quick 10-minute break. Grab what you need. But thank you very much, Dalton, for a great session. Thank you very much, Dalton, for a great session. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Yes, yes, yes. If you look on the site today, all the slides from yesterday are already up. Hello, everybody. Please take your seats right away. Please take your seats. We're going to get started. Hello. Thank you. Meeting founders and making decisions is way more of an art than a science. And as Dalton says, unfortunately in this game, I think you have to lose some money before you can really become an expert, as much as anyone is an expert, become an expert, as much as anyone is an expert at answering the questions you need to answer to make an investment. The next person who's about to come up has more wisdom and knowledge about this than perhaps anybody I know. Before I introduce PB, however, first for the live streamers, I apologize for the problems we're having with the live stream. As I said, this is the first time we've done this here in Mountain View, so we're bound to have kinks. The good news is that everything is going to show up on the site, and once it shows up on the site, it will be more immune from networking issues. They're less likely to be ours and more likely to be yours at that point. All of the slides will appear on the site within 24 hours after the session. So I believe it's true. All of the slides from yesterday are now up with the transcripts from yesterday at investor.startupschool.org. And we'll do our best to make the live stream work as well as possible. So the next investor, the next presenter, excuse me, he's also an investor obviously, is Paul Buchheit who has been a partner at YC with me as long as I've been here. He's been at YC as long as anyone here. I think it's probably seven years he's been hanging around YC for even longer than that. He has also notably the inventor of Gmail, which sucks for me because I was part of the team that invented Yahoo Mail. So we have a lot of good conversations. He's still my friend, I think. He also created a company called Friend Feed, which he sold to Facebook. He knows a lot about a lot. I guess that's the best way to talk about Paul. But one of the things he does know a lot about is investing. Here's a quote from Paul that is actually an important one, and I would think about it a lot as you think about investing. I think the best kind of virality is a product that people like so much that they just want to tell people about it. So here's one of the smartest and best investors I know in the world, Paul Bouquet, to talk about that. Thank you. investors I know in the world, Paul Bouquet, to talk about that. Paul Bouquet, CEO, All right. So, thank you, Jeff. That was probably setting the expectations too high. So, as Jeff mentioned, I've been involved in startups for a while, probably about 20 years now. I've been investing for the past 12 years. I've invested in hundreds of companies. I've seen thousands here at YC. I've interviewed thousands of founders. And so last year, I kind of came to the realization that I needed to stop and actually think about what I had done. Because I spent most of those years just making somewhat haphazard decisions. So I spent a bunch of time trying to actually figure out, like, what are the patterns that gave rise to favorable outcomes for me and what are the patterns that gave rise to unfavorable outcomes with the idea that in the future I can maybe do better so really this is like something I more did for myself in my own investing process it may or may not work for anyone else. But it's what I intend to do. And so the structure of this is I'll tell a series of stories. First of favorable outcomes, things that went good for me, and then some unfavorable outcomes, things that did not go good for me. And then finally followed by some conclusions about how I plan to invest going forward. So first, there's this idea I'm not limiting myself to good ideas. And this actually started out as a joke about 20 years ago, but then I kind of realized it was true. A lot of my ideas are not good. But it's also really relevant to startups because oftentimes the bad ideas, I mean the the good ideas look bad. And the reason for this is that if the idea were obviously good, the opportunity wouldn't exist. Big companies are not that dumb. They're capable of executing. They have lots of resources. They have market power. If they thought there was this $10 billion business sitting there, they would just go do it themselves. So necessarily, for it to be a good startup, it kind of has to be something that inside of a big company would get shot down for being, you know, stupid or unimportant. And actually, the example I like the best is this company, I don't know who recognizes that logo. That's the original Google logo. When Google has a research project at Stanford called Backrub, it's Larry Page's hand in a flatbed scanner. And so, you know, Google started out as this research project at Stanford. Larry and Sergey were PhD students there. And they actually wanted to continue being PhD students and finish their degree. So they went off and tried to sell Google to one of the big Internet companies of the time. So Yahoo, XSite, Infoseek. They made their rounds to all these companies. They wanted a million dollars for Google. And fortunately, everyone said no. No one thought it was worth a million dollars. They thought search was unimportant. They thought it was just like a commodity, sort of a flavor of the month thing. They're like, oh, you're hot now, but next month it will be some other startup and we'll just hop from one to the next. So again, like, if this opportunity were obvious, Google wouldn't exist. So necessarily it has to look kind of bad. And so I'll start my story at Google. And the reason here is I think I really want to emphasize the absolute importance in this game of being extremely lucky. So the good news is you're all accredited investors, supposedly. That means you're already among the luckiest people on Earth. But I also like to think about this a lot, because being a startup employee is actually a lot like being an investor, except you can really only do one at a time. And so I've asked myself, how did I end up at Google? What took me there? And the first thing is just that they actually had a product that I used. I was a very early user. And so I just knew about it. They had made something people want, namely me. They made something I want. And the second reason is Linux. So I was really, really, really into Linux. A friend in college once put it, shut the fuck up. Not everything is about Linux. So when I went looking for a startup to go work at, really my only criteria was that they'd be doing cool stuff with Linux. And so that was how I ended up at Google, is they were building these clusters of Linux machines, and nothing could be more exciting than that. And when I interviewed there, the people were really smart. They asked good questions. I interviewed at another startup where the people asked dumb questions, and you could really tell the difference. What I didn't know was that it was a good business. I actually expected that Google would get squashed by like Alta Vista or something. I didn't go in thinking like I was going to make money. I went in thinking I would learn something about startups. And in fact, I did learn some stuff, which was good. So I had a good time there. As Jeff mentioned, I launched Gmail. But eventually, it was kind of turning into a big company, and I'm interested in startups. So I kind of got the itch again to get back involved in startups. So I'm looking around, and then in early 2005, I see this thing, the Summer Founders Program. And this is sort of funny because I don't know, a lot of you probably don't know this. The very first batch of Y Combinator was pitched as a replacement for a summer job. The idea was college students, instead of going to work at Google as an intern, would just come to YC and start a company. This actually looked like a really bad idea to most people in 2005. And this actually looked like a really bad idea to most people in 2005. In fact, their original lawyers they tried to work with refused to do the work. They said, this is terrible. We're not going to do it. Investors all thought it was a joke. They're like, no good company is ever going to come out of this. So how did I end up here? How did I end up connected to YC? And the answer is that Paul Graham had written a lot of really good essays. And so I had read a lot of his stuff. He was really smart. I didn't know him. I thought he was really smart. I think he had really good insights. And I thought this was a really intriguing idea. Not necessarily a good idea, but intriguing, interesting. And for me, I think interesting kind of includes this element of unpredictable. Like if I know what the outcome is, then there's no point in getting involved. It's the things where I don't know the outcome where I can learn. So basically I just cold emailed PG and was like, hey, can I help out? And so I started hanging out here, got to know the first batch that was in this building, which was the winter 06 batch. And that was about 12 years ago. I actually since then have invested in every batch. I'm a repeat offender. But my very first angel investment was in a YC company called Wufoo. And here's what the Internet thought about it. For those of you who can't read it, which is probably most of them, the person says, is anyone keeping a list of all these new Y Combinator startups? Seems like it might be entertaining a year from now, after all the hype has died down, to go back and look at it. I mean, sure, it seems like it's written in Python and it uses XML HTTP requests as being confused with stuff like, I have a business plan. And my product satisfies a demand that consumers actually have. And I like this because it's both kind of like making fun of YC and Wufoo. And it was very characteristic of the thinking at that time. And in fact, you know, Wufoo never did IPO, but my investment on that returned like 44X when SurveyMonkey bought them. And the founder, Kevin Hale, who's extremely talented, ended up being a partner here at YC some years later and no doubt therefore helped earn me more money by helping our startups. So there's both an immediate return and then there's the long-term return. The following year, I invested in this YC company. It's called Justin TV. The idea was that Justin here was going to stick a camera on his head and then live stream it to the Internet. That was, like, the idea. And at first, I was like, are you joking? Like, no, we're going to do it. I'm like, awesome. Because, again, this is really unpredictable. What's going to happen when you start live streaming your life 24-7? And I guarantee this is not the idea that would come out of Google. You're not going to see Larry Page with a camera strapped to his head 24-7. Nor should it come out of Google. So, again, this was just like an unpredictable thing. And in fact, the company struggled for quite a while, which I mentioned because someone asked earlier, Dalton, what if the company is kind of going sideways? Should I, I mean, I think the implication was should I kick the founders until they give me my money back? And the answer is no. So this company, they actually even tried to do an acqui-hire several years in, but no one would acqui-hire them because they thought they didn't have any talent. They couldn't do a talent acquisition because the acquirers thought there was no talent. Fortunately, they eventually pivoted to Twitch, Fortunately, they eventually pivoted to Twitch, which was focusing on just the one part of their product. People were streaming all kinds of things on Justin.tv. But Emmet became interested in specifically video game streaming. People were streaming their games, which I never would have thought was a business. That was a total surprise to me. But that turned out to be a great business, which they sold to Amazon, unfortunately, for a billion dollars. It's probably worth way more than that right now. But the other interesting thing I want to point out here is this company had four founders. So Emmett, who is the CEO of Twitch, is still the CEO of Twitch at Amazon, where it's estimated to be like a 20 billion dollar business at this point. Justin Kahn has started a bunch more startups. He was here as a partner at YC for a couple years. Now he has a new company called Atrium, which if you invest in any of our companies going forward, you'll probably interact with because they're doing kind of like the default legal provider now for YC companies. Michael Seibel started a company called SocialCam, which actually was a Justin.TV spinout, sold that to Autodesk for $60 million, and then became a YC partner, and actually he's now the CEO of Y Combinator. And finally, Kyle Vogt started a company called Cruise, which you may have heard of because GM bought them for a billion dollars. So that four group of people who had so little talent that no one would talent acquire them have done some pretty remarkable things. All right. So eventually I wanted to start my own company. I was like, all right, I think I see how this is done. I can do better. So that leads me to FriendFeed. Now, when I decided to start a startup, I actually had a lot of ideas. Probably most of them were genuinely not good. But the one idea that was totally correct is that I thought the most important thing was having a really great team. And so that was sort of the original focus is just like figuring out who I can get to join on to this. And fortunately, I managed to convince this guy, Brett Taylor, to co-found FriendFeed with us. And Brett is someone that I knew from Google. I hadn't worked with him, but I kind of knew him. You know, we had chatted, and I knew him by reputation. And the story I like to tell about Brett is he was the PM on Maps, not even, or maybe like an APM, not even an engineer. And he was frustrated that the product was so slow and clunky. And this was before it was launched. And so finally, one weekend, he was just like, you know what? I'm just going to fix it. And so he rewrote the entire JavaScript front end over a weekend, made it a third the size and ten times as fast as what an entire team of developers had been working on for a long time. This is the kind of person you want to invest in. That is an absolutely great bet. Let's see. So FriendFeed generated a lot of buzz. Unfortunately, it didn't generate a lot of growth, in part because we ended up competing with this company, Facebook. So they turned out to be a very formidable competitor. I got a chance to meet Zuck. He's really impressive. And eventually, I came to believe that Facebook was unbeatable, not by us, not by Google, not by anyone, and that it would therefore be like a Google-sized success, and therefore we should sell. So we sold FriendFeed to Facebook for about half a percent of Facebook's equity, which turned out to be a pretty good deal. And so the lesson here I really want to emphasize is find your betters. Like, you want to find people who are smarter in everything, more insightful than you are. And I think Brett and Zuck and the team at Facebook are great examples of this. They were just clearly better at it than I am. So that's one of my criteria when I'm meeting a founder. If I'm thinking, oh, I could do this job better than you, I shouldn't fund. I only want to fund people who are better than I am. And so this is why it's not that I think idea and market don't matter. Like those things are of critical importance. You're not going to build a big company in a tiny market. But my belief is that if the founders are actually better than me, then they're going to have better insights. They're going to know more than me. So I can kind of outsource that part of the thinking to the founder. And then I just have to figure out, like, does the founder believe it? And so what you want to do here, I believe, is use your knowledge to probe, to ask intelligent questions, to see if they really do know what they're talking about, right? But not using it to decide, not being like, oh, you know, I'm an expert on air mattresses. I know there's no business here, right? The challenge, of course, is finding these great founders. So I want to go through a couple more examples that I think highlight some traits. The first is Meraki. This is another early investment, 2006. And when I went in to meet them in their little office in Mountain View, they showed me around. They introduced me to the team. They showed me some of the hardware. They were building these little mesh Wi-Fi boxes at the time. And I was like, wow, this is really impressive. Like, how much money have you guys raised? And they were like, we haven't raised any. That's why we're talking to you, right? And I was shocked because they had, like, hardware there. They had been selling these devices, and they did it all by kind of, like, scraping together money here and there. They got somehow a deal on this and a deal on that, and someone lent them money. And they were able to string the whole thing together for $0, which is exactly what I like to see. And for zero dollars, which is exactly what I like to see. And so this is another one I like to think about as an example of what you want. And then just kind of for laughs, I'll give you what would be an opposite of Meraki, I would say is Juicero. They spent $100 million on their juice bag squeezer without ever talking to a customer, without ever trying to sell someone a bag of juice, which, by the way, is what it is. It's just a bag of juice and it squeezes it out. It's horrible, right? So you want the opposite of Juicero. You want Meraki. And this was Cisco bought this for 1.2 billion, which was like a 73X return. Once again, they sold too early. That company is worth $10, $20 billion now. Founders always sell too early because you're like, wow, a billion dollars. I make the same mistake. I sell too early. Next up is Cruise. Cruise, I mentioned earlier, one of the founders of Justin.TV, Kyle Vogt, started this company. And my favorite Kyle story is actually from the early days of Justin.TV, where they came to me with this problem. I had invested and then they came to me with this problem where they were burning up all of their money on streaming, because it turned out streaming video was very expensive. They could either use these streaming CDNs that were really expensive, or they could license some kind of software to run their own streaming CDN. But that was also really expensive. So they were like, what should we do? We're going to burn all of your money, which I don't like. So I was like, you know what? This doesn't seem like a hard problem to me. Like bits go in, bits go out. What's the big deal? You should just write your own streaming media server. And Kyle took me seriously. He's like, okay, I guess if PB says it's possible. And actually I told him he should be able to do it in an evening. You should just build this tonight, launch it tomorrow. Like, I don't get what's so hard. Just make it work. It turns out it took him maybe like a whole weekend. But he did in fact write their own streaming media server. And this is actually the reason that Justin.TV survived at all. Right? Because there was no way the business was viable if And so, again, it's a founder who's willing to do something that a more reasonable person would say is impossible. Like 99% of engineers, if I told them, oh, yeah, you should replicate this other company's product and you should do it tonight, would just be like, you're an idiot. Like, you don't know what you're talking about. It would give me a big long list of reasons why it's impossible. But instead, he just did it. And so the cruise idea actually seemed, four years ago, kind of in a similar boat. Now self-driving cars are really, self-driving car startups are really hot. But four years ago it actually seemed like an absurd idea. Like the technology is so hard. Google has like a huge team working on it. Like there's no way, like this is too much for a little startup. There's no way it can work. But of course it had Kyle. So I invested anyway. And as mentioned, GM bought them for like a billion, which was about a 50X return. Not too bad. Again, probably sold too early. This company you may or may not have heard of. They get a lot of press because it's awesome. They came out of YC two years ago. They're building supersonic jets. In 10 years, when you want to go to Tokyo, you're going to get there in like six hours. Like that's pretty exciting. And so this is another great example. The founder, Blake, he's actually a software guy. He doesn't know anything about it. He didn't have like an aeronautics background or anything. He just became determined. He's like, you know, he didn't have like an aeronautics background or anything. He just became determined. He's like, you know, it's the future. We should have supersonic travel. And he's like, I'm just going to do it. And so he took the time to just go teach himself everything and figure out why, like, the Concorde was such a huge failure and what was different now. And what was so remarkable, I remember when he was in YC, is that he was able to very clearly explain to me why he was going to do this thing that seems really impossible, but he could very clearly outline to me essentially like the three things that were wrong with the Concord that he was fixing. The reasons that this was actually a viable business and like work through the economics of it all. And he laid out a very clean picture. And again, this is one of the traits of really great founders is they're able to communicate what's a fairly complex idea. I don't know anything about supersonic aircraft. I'm not an expert in supersonic aircraft, right? I don't know anything about supersonic aircraft. I'm not an expert in supersonic aircraft, right? But he's able to explain this to me in a way that I understand very easily He's got good insights and just absurd ambition Just like really ambitious something that again people would be like there's no way a startup is gonna build a supersonic airliner I Believe they are, you know, it's not proven, but they're making amazing progress. I always love to read their investor updates. He also sends the best investor updates of any company I've ever invested in. And so the other point I want to make here actually is don't be afraid to invest in things that aren't software. If you're working according to this philosophy that you want a really great founder and the founder brings the expertise, then you're working according to this philosophy that, like, you want a really great founder and the founder brings the expertise, then you're able to invest in so much more. And we have so many great companies that are, like, in bio. I think we're going to have some just giant exits, you know, 10 years from now. And I see every time at demo day, because I work with a lot of the bio companies, because I really like them, I see at least half the investors just cross it off the list on principle, because they're like, I don't know anything about supersonic aircraft. So don't do that. All right, now as promised, I will talk about some of the less flattering stories. So in honor of the Dropbox IPO, let's talk about Dropbox. So this email, again, for those who can't read it, is me replying to Drew. This is September 14, 2007. Sorry I wasn't able to make it today. Are you going to be around this weekend? So I had actually gone to Boston to meet the Summer 7 batch, which was only like 19 companies, so it wasn't that hard. Drew seemed really good. He was definitely, you know, seemed like one of the strongest founders in the batch. But, you know, I had some questions about competition, like what are you going to do about Google Drive and all that. So I set up a meeting to meet with him when we're back in San Francisco. And then on the day of the meeting, my previous meeting ran long and I canceled on Drew. And I want to make a couple of points here. One is that that's really shitty investor behavior because you're wasting the founder's time. Don't do that. And two, karma kind of got me back. I missed out on what would have been like a thousand extra turn and an exciting IPO because I didn't show up. All right. So I missed Airbnb. I mean, Dropbox. But what about Airbnb? So here's Michael Sibel introducing me. This was June 26, 2008, to this company, Airbed and Breakfast. And then just sort of like humorously, four years later, three years later, I respond, I should have responded. The thing that actually triggered this was that the Airbnb founders were like standing right here telling their story. And I was like, oh, this hurts so much. I can't believe I missed this company. In my defense, I had my own startup at the time. And I think if you are a startup founder, you need to give your own company absolute priority over angel investing. The thing that actually makes this more painful is that this was just the first time. This was before they were in YC. Once they were in YC, PG was like, oh, you've got to talk to the Airbnbs. They're so good. They're the best company. He was just constantly hyping them. talked to the Airbnbs. They're so good. They're the best company. He was just constantly hyping them. And generally, if PG gives that strong of an endorsement, you just invest. I'm like, cool. I'll invest. I'll watch for them on Angel Day, which is what we used to call Demo Day. And I show up on Angel Day, and there's no Airbnb. So I emailed Brian. I'm like, hey, missed you guys today. I was hoping to chat and invest. He's like, yeah, sorry, we just signed a term sheet with Sequoia. So again, I had basically in my head decided to invest, but then just kind of was lackadaisical and took some time. Fortunately, I was able to get into a later round, but at a much higher price. But again, the point I want to make here is that if you move slow, you're going to get adverse selection. Like the companies that you can string along for months and give a hundred different meetings and like you need to talk to this person probably aren't going to be the best companies. So like be very deliberate in your decision making. Like, do or do not, right? Don't just be like, yeah, you know, I'll see what happens. Like, when you identify a company as being really promising, as something you want to invest in, you could spend, like, another week thinking about it, or you could pull the trigger and get Airbnb. All right. spend another week thinking about it or you could pull the trigger and get Airbnb. What else doesn't work? Really good price. This one I've been duped into a bunch where I'm like, oh, it's such a, you know, they're giving me a bargain. I'm tempted by a bargain. Like oh, the valuation is so low, it's a steal. Like, I'm getting a great deal. I've never gotten any return on something that I invested in because it was a good deal. There really literally is no such thing as value investing in startups. As much as it seems like there should be, every time I've done this, it's been a mistake. Another mistake. Not investing because of price. And clearly there must be some limit at which this isn't true, but I've never encountered it. Anytime I've been excited about something, but then it's like, ah, the price is so high, eh, you know, I'll invest in something else. I've always regretted it. So now, actually, in my head, I kind of turn around the rule. I'm like, if I'm dissuaded by the price, I should probably invest more. I just need to write a larger check. This one is probably kind of obvious. I make this mistake a lot because I work with the founders. I get emotionally attached and I just want to help them out. They seem helpless. If you're investing out of pity. Those also have never made any money. These have always turned out bad. Because again, like the really great founders just are so formidable. You know, someone like Blake at Boom, it's sort of like a force of nature. He's somehow just going to will this thing into existence. The people who come to me with like a sob story, oh, no one wants to invest. Maybe if you write a check, they will. Like, no, I haven't made anything. So I'm going to try to keep myself from making this mistake. I'll probably do it a little bit more. Cynical ideas. This one is something where I'm actually not really that excited about what they're doing and what it means for the future, but it seems like it could make a lot of money. And so, you know, if they're going to make a lot of money, I'd like some of it. So far, and I'm kind of actually happy about this, I've never made money on these companies. Somehow the cynical ideas, I don't know why, but they haven't worked out for me. Maybe I have the wrong kind of cynicism. But the principle here I would suggest is invest in optimism. Invest in the future you want to see, not the future you fear. And these are basically ideas where I invested in the future I fear. I had this one idea at one point that I should just invest in anything that would not be out of place in the movie Idiocracy. Fortunately, those investments didn't work. All right. Another mistake, really impressive numbers. I think Sam touched on this yesterday. It's really easy to get excited. And good numbers on their own are not a bad thing, obviously. Sometimes really good companies have really good numbers. But the thing that happens is you kind of get blinded by the numbers. You're like, wow, it just keeps going up. Ignore the fact that somehow the founders are kind of eh or the product doesn't really make sense to me. And again, never made money on these. If I'm just investing because of the numbers, it turns out to be a bad investment. And I think the reason for this, the question to ask is, is this company actually creating value? Like, are they actually making the world a wealthier place? Or are they maybe just exploiting some temporary inefficiency in, like, Facebook? Facebook's going to change their algorithm and the company's going to be dead. Right? All right. So I've tried to boil that all down, again, just more for my own use to a checklist. Because, again, my thinking on startups is that it's really like the founders are absolutely critical and everything else kind of derives from that. So if I'm just asking myself, like, is this person a great founder? Here's some of the traits. Clear, concise communication. And I want to be clear, this doesn't mean slick, salesy kind of communication. I mean people who can demonstrate a real depth of understanding and clarity of thought. In the example, actually probably one of the best examples of this is just Paul Graham with Y Combinator. Like the whole reason Y Combinator really exists is because he'd been writing these essays for years that were sort of like he's kind of like the Pied Piper of nerds. Like everyone would just read these things and get excited. And that was and to this day, I believe it's like the number one or number two source of leads to people applying to Y Combinator. We ask a question on the application, how did you hear about Y Combinator? And they say from Paul Graham's essays. But also, you know, essentially all of the other founders fall into this category, right? Like Kyle was able to tell me a story about how he was going to make a self-driving car. Boom, again, he's able to tell me the story about how they're going to do this impossible thing. And so if people, if I find myself struggling to understand or doing the work for them, it's always a bad sign. And it's the trap I sometimes fall into is I'll talk to them for so long, I'll come up with a story that makes sense, and then I'll just sell myself on my own story. I'll think maybe I'm just not smart enough. But no, if they're a good founder, they're going to be able to communicate to me. Moves fast. Again, like, think of Brett rewriting maps in a weekend. Or Kyle making a media server. Or, you know, the Meraki team building that product with no money. Moving fast is absolutely critical. And, again, it's something that I think most people don't do. It's really easy to come up with reasons why this should take longer or, oh, you know, I really want to get this thing right or that thing right. Like founders will come up with infinite reasons to move slow. And that's fine. I'm just not going to invest. Accomplishes a lot with a little. And so, again, like Meraki is the great example of this. No money in their shipping hardware somehow. Juicero is the anti-story of that. Most startups unfortunately accomplish very little with a lot. Implausibly ambitious or frivolous ideas. And the reason that we're kind of at these two extremes is that if the idea is in the middle, as I mentioned at the start, probably there's like a big company somewhere working on it or a hundred other start-ups. And so you want to see something that either sounds impossible like a supersonic jet or just straight up stupid like putting a camera on Justin's head. Things that seem like toys. Actually, Aaron Harris had a good blog post about this. I think last week you should look up on the YC blog. Ideas that look like toys are oftentimes really great. And the founders have the conviction to pursue these obviously bad ideas. to pursue these obviously bad ideas is a talent magnet. So the best people want to work with the best people. And somehow, the really great founders seem to be able to attract other great people. And actually, YC, this is, I think, really the secret of YC is that it's just a giant talent magnet. Like, we could bring them in and do almost anything. I think it would still sort of work. The key thing is that we're attracting the best people and the best people want to come be a part of Y Combinator because this is where all the other best people are. And we see this with a lot of our top startups like Stripe, you know, really brilliant founders and then their team is also really impressive. Make something people want. This is key. This is our slogan, make something people want. Google is a great example. I actually was using the product. If they're building a thing that you actually want, that's a good sign. If you can't identify anyone in the world who would possibly want the thing that they're making, anyone who, if you offer it to them, they'll be like, no, thank you. That's a bad sign. I was going to say something else about that, but I don't remember. Oh, right. I was going to say something else about that, but I don't remember. Oh, right. Actually, another funny story here is DoorDash, which you may have seen in the news. They just raised another half billion. When they interviewed here, actually in the room right over there, my one question for them was, will you deliver to my house? Because at the time when they went through YC, there was no food delivery where delivery where I lived and I get hungry. And so they're like, yes. I was like, you're funded. So I mainly funded that company just because I wanted food for myself. But, you know, they're doing good. And finally, determined and committed. And in fact, PG says determined is the number one most important trait in a startup founder. And the fact, PG says determined is the number one most important trait in a startup founder. And the reason for this is because starting a startup is really, really, really hard and unpleasant. And so if you're not super determined, you'll probably give up at some point. You'll be like, why am I putting myself through hell? I should just go get a job at Google and be like a normal person. Unfortunately, I think like this can sometimes be a little bit hard to suss out because the founders will of course be like, oh, yeah, I'm totally committed. But some of the things you can look for is are they hedging their bets? Like do they have kind of this easy plan B? And actually the group of founders where I've seen this happen the most is founders who are on leave from med school. Doctors who realize they didn't really want to be a doctor, so they're like, I'll try out the startup thing. And so they come in here, they'll work for six months or whatever, and they'll be like, man, this is hard. I'm scared. I'm going to go back to medical school, right? Like, they have that easy out. They've already made a huge investment in being a doctor, and they don't want to throw that all away for some pipe dream startup. And I think the other thing that I like to look at is, have the people made mistakes in their life? I'm very nervous about people who have always gotten perfect grades. They got into all the right things. They did all the right clubs. The people who have the perfect resume. The people who didn't fuck up. Because these are people who have the perfect resume, people who didn't fuck up. Because these are people who've never failed. And startup founder, being a startup founder, you're basically failing day after day. And so what these people do, these are people who are scared of failure. And so they almost inevitably will take just like an early exit and then they can put on their resume, oh, you know, started a YC startup inevitably will take just like an early exit and then they can put on their resume, oh, you know, started a YC startup and sold it to some other company, right? It doesn't say that they sold it for like $0 or whatever, but they can add it to their resume and they can go get a safe job at McKinsey or something. All right, so that is it. Thank you. Thanks. So start asking questions. So the question is, with respect to making things people want, how do you evaluate that for, like, bio companies and things like that? You know, actually, I find most of the time with those companies, it's pretty obvious. Like, you're making a cure for cancer. I want a cure for cancer, right? The risk on those companies is most often not market risk. It's not the risk that no one wants a cure for cancer, right? The risk on those companies is most often not market risk. It's not the risk that no one wants a cure for cancer. The risk is that they don't actually have a cure for cancer, right? So with those companies, more often it's one of these things where the demand is kind of obvious. It's just like a question of whether you can actually create the product. I have a question. All right. Just wondering, I know Justin. I know Michael. I know Emmett. I know Kyle. What is it about those guys that made you invest? Because, I mean, that was, you didn't really say it, but you heard this incredibly stupid idea, and yet you invested in this no-talented group of four people. Why? I mean, I think they did have talent. I think they told a very simple story. Actually, this is a good question. They told a story that really connected with me, which is we're going to stick a camera on our head, on Justin's head, and then stream it and see what happens. And that's the kind of thing I love, because I'm like, I don't know what's gonna happen, right? It's really unpredictable. But again, the thing that I liked was that they weren't gonna go off and spend a lot of time thinking about it and making complex plans. They were literally just gonna do it. They bought a camera, stuck it on Justin's head, and hacked together some so that they could stream it. So they were going to be able to test the idea very quickly and learn and iterate. And again, this is part of why on the checklist here, moves fast is super important. You can almost predict the success of a startup just based on how quickly they're able to iterate. And the really great companies just iterate really quickly. The ones who do a release every two years fail. Okay. So the question is, unlike private equity where you can do months and months of diligence, we kind of have to move fast as investors or, as I mentioned, face adverse selection of not funding Airbnb. So how do we know if the founders move fast, I think is what he was saying, as well as all of these other things. And what you can do is you can actually ask them, like, what have you done? What have you accomplished in the past month? There's actually a really good blog post you should all go find where it says, a little bit of slope is worth a lot of why intercept, I think is the title. And basically the idea is you can have something up here, you know, millions of dollars in revenue, but it's kind of flat lined. Or you can have this little toy down here with like almost nothing, but it has an upward slope. And you want to invest in the thing with slope. And so this is what we look for in founders and companies is just like, how quickly are they moving forward? How soon are they going to do something? Right? And so like the example of Justin TV, it wasn't like we're going to launch this thing next year. It was like we're going to launch this thing next week. Right? And so just talking to them about their schedule, what they've done in the past, and what their anticipated future schedule is. And actually asking them, like, okay, why aren't you doing this thing faster? And seeing if they give me just kind of like excuses or if there maybe is a legitimate reason for not moving fast. And you can also try pushing the founders, probably more so after you fund them, pushing them to move even faster and see how they respond. And, you know, like my story with Kyle, I gave him what was maybe an unreasonable thing, like you should rewrite some other company's product in an evening. But he took it and ran with it, right? He didn't just, like, I've worked with a lot of engineers. 99% of engineers would just, like, tell me I'm smoking crack and, like, don't know what I'm talking about. But he just took it and ran with it. So here at YC, we actually fund the companies based on a 10-minute interview. So it is possible to get, it's amazing how much you can get out of people in 10 minutes. And actually, this is again why I put, for me, number one on the list is clear, concise communication. If I spend 10 minutes interviewing a company and I still don't know what they do, that's an easy no. Like it's so easy to say no to that, right? Like if they can't tell me what it is, and that's probably like at least a third of the companies that come in here to interview, at the end of the interview we still don't know what they're doing. And so we don't fund them. So the question is, did I make any mistakes with respect to the fundamentals of the startup? I mean, okay. The thing you have to remember is that most of your investments aren't going to work out. And it's easy to spend a lot of time kind of making up complex theories. But what I find is the danger when I see investors who do that is they come up with clever ways of talking themselves out of good deals. never ways of talking themselves out of good deals. Because like, you know, Justin.TV, if I had given that like five minutes of thought, I could have come up with, you know, a hundred reasons why it wasn't going to work. Right? So yeah, do the companies fail for fundamental reasons? Of course. And sometimes you never even know. Like suppose Justin.TV had managed to actually do a talent acquisition. Someone thought they had talent. They wouldn't be up on the slide, right? It's kind of random. You know, some random person at Google flipped the bit one way or the other and I got a completely different outcome. But if I were to then look back on that, let's say it wasn't a favorable outcome, and then try to draw deep conclusions about why I should never again invest in a streaming video company or something like that, I might miss out on something really good. So one of my other principles is don't overlearn from past mistakes. And it's really easy because it hurts. It hurts so much to lose money. It hurts me at least. You want to avoid it. But if you're going to be able to do this, you kind of just have to bite the bullet and recognize that fundamentally investing at seed stage involves, and I started with this, a great deal of luck. So the question is when I look at ICOs, do I see that as the open source of funding or the Gcero of funding? It's a good question. I'm trying to figure out how to politely answer. I think there's something really interesting going on in crypto. So crypto is another one of these things. I gave Linux as an example where the thing that brought me to Google was my enthusiasm for Linux. And I think if you were paying attention to what nerdy 21-year-olds were excited about five, six years ago, you would have invested in Coinbase and Bitcoin and all that stuff. That said, as far as I can tell, the vast majority of the ICOs are scams. Or just like these are companies that if they were trying to raise from the people in the room here, maybe they'd be able to raise half a million dollars. But instead they go do an ICO and they raise, let's say, a hundred million dollars. No way. No way. Those are all going to zero. I don't believe any of those are going to work. And part of the reason for that, too, is this counterintuitive thing that I've learned working with a lot of startups is that actually too much money is a huge liability because when you have a lot of money, you start doing things the right way. And that's actually kind of what happened with Juicero as an example is they got, you know, a hundred and whatever million dollars. If that company only had a hundred K, they would have had to go try to sell juice bags. They wouldn't have been able to spend years building this stupid machine, right? They would have had to actually talk to customers. And so having a giant mountain of money enables the founders to insulate themselves from reality to an unhealthy extent. Just a couple of questions from cyberspace or in this room and they're just too shy to speak it out. One was directly to me but I think it's a interesting question which is people tend to be nervous of sort of deep deep technology companies, investors especially. How do you get over that? And how do people in general get over not being afraid of sort of hard tech? I mean, I guess I also just like tend to invest in things that I'm excited about. And it's so much easier for me to get excited about a supersonic jet than some sort of like obscure enterprise software or something like that. And not that enterprise software is a bad investment, but I don't know, for me it's not really that hard because I sort of accept the fact that I actually don't know very much about almost anything. So it's not just the hard tech companies. I don't know anything about almost any of what the companies are doing. That's why I have to invest in people who are better than me. And so it really just comes down to do I believe in this founder and their expertise? And then therefore I can just rely, I can outsource my thinking to the founder. I don't think you answered this, but if you and I were meeting and I had a startup and you were trying to determine whether I was determined, how would you do that? Actually, to talk about this a little bit, but a lot of it is kind of probing for, do they have any plan B, right? Are they going to go back to medical school? Have they quit their job yet? Do they still have a job at some other company? Like, and we get this a lot of times where we'll ask founders, are you going to leave your job? And they'll say, well, if I raise enough money that I can pay myself X, Y, Z. Like, they have these conditions on it. And ideally, you want the people who are just willing to charge straight into a brick wall if necessary. I think this is really deep. Paul Graham says this is the most important quality of a founder you should look for, but it's extraordinarily difficult to know when someone has it. One of the reasons, by the way, we ask questions on the YC application about your past, because that is one way I try to determine if someone's determined, you know, has that quality of getting punched in the face, falling down and getting back up again, is has that happened to them in the past? Paul mentioned people who have never, ever failed. That doesn't mean that they're not going to fail this time, but you just don't have very much information about what happens when they get punched in the face. Right. Actually, if they've never failed, they're going to be afraid of failure, and therefore they're going to take a safe exit. And actually, like, to follow up on that, what you can do to examine determination is actually also just ask about the history of the company. So like Airbnb is another one where they had actually worked on that for a long time. And, you know, Michael actually helped them out a lot with the pitch. They pitched a number of investors. Everyone said no. When they came to interview YC, Paul Graham actually tried to talk them out of the idea. They're like, you know, you guys seem really good, but this idea is terrible. tried to talk them out of the idea. They're like, you know, you guys seem really good, but this idea is terrible. Can you work on something else? And they're just like, no. Right? Like, he tried to talk them out of it. If he had talked them out of it, that probably would mean it was a bad idea. Okay. One more question. So the question is, what about, like I invest in things I don't know about. What about things I do know about? I have a trick here, which is I don't know about anything. I mean, honestly, like I think it's really easy to overestimate your own knowledge and experience. So like I said, I try to avoid learning too much from the past. Specifically, you asked about email. Yeah, I am a little bit burnt out on email startups. So there's like maybe kind of a high bar just because I know. This is a case where I can take my knowledge, and I put this earlier when you're talking to the founder, use your knowledge to probe and see if they have a good response. And so, you know, a lot of the email stuff, they're like tweaking Gmail. And I'm like, okay, what if Google just adds this feature? What are you going to do? And they're like, I don't know. Right? Like, okay, that's not a good answer. But I have had good email startups. Front was actually recently in the news. They just raised a big round from Sequoia, I think. Really great founder again, Mathilde. She's great. That was an email thing, but she could tell me a really clear story about why it wasn't just like a feature in Gmail. You almost have to unlearn things that you think you know. You know, I ran one of the very first ever personal services, and I might have thought it was done and never invested in any personal service again, and I think that would have been a pretty bad mistake. So I think we give, I think, a little bit contradictory advice here all the time. It's part of the game. You should completely learn everything you can from your past mistakes and ignore the past at the same time. So it's not very easy to be a good investor, but that's why we're all here, right? So thanks a lot, Paul. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We are nearly halfway through our class. That went fast, right? I guess you can have really quick classes when there's no diploma or anything like that. So just a couple of notes. If you've noticed a lot, maybe all of the presenters thus far are YC people. That's not going to end right now. However, the rest of the course is mostly, almost exclusively, perspectives on investing from outside of YC. So don't worry. We're not completely staring at our own navel here. However, I will also argue vociferously that the lessons that you've heard from YC partners thus far are, in fact, quite general and relevant to investing in startups inside or outside of YC. You still should invest in a lot of YC companies. There's good reasons to do that, however. Also, I know there's a lot of questions about ICOs and SAFs and crypto. If you can contain yourselves, please try to hold those questions till day four because we're going to have a presentation by Andy Bromberg, who's the CEO of CoinList and the right person to whom to pose those questions. Our next presenter is going to briefly talk about whatever he wants to. He's one of that no talent group of four people from Justin TV who it turned out did okay founding his own company Social Cam selling it for a couple bucks and is now the CEO of Y Combinator and doing great, amazing things here. Michael is an extraordinary person to have in front of us. I'm really lucky. He is the person who said, "'You need to find problems so dire "'that users are willing to try half-baked, "'V1 imperfect solutions.'" He knows a lot about those exact things. Please welcome Michael Seibel. Thank you. All right. It's been a long day, so I'm going to be pretty fast. First, how many of you in the room are doing angel investing to make money? Raise your hand. Raise them high. It's not a bad thing to make money. Raise your hand. Okay, raise them high. It's not a bad thing to make money. Great. So I'm going to tell you about my experience raising, I'm sorry, doing angel investing. But I'll tell you straight away that I'm not doing it to make money. In effect, I feel like where I came from on the East Coast, when people want to give back, they give money to charity and they go to Golis, which I never understood. And strangely, here in the Valley, when people want to give back, they write angel investing checks. And so that's really why I write checks. I kind of think of it as charity. someone described it to me as taking money, flushing it down the toilet, and then very rarely walking up on the street to a million dollars just laying there and being like, holy shit. And so that's kind of how I see it. So take all of this advice with that in mind. So I wanted to give you a very realistic vision of my scorecard. I've been angel investing for 4.5 years. I've made 50 total investments, invested in four angel funds, 47 companies. Only three of them were not YC companies. 46 of them were early stage. One was late stage. It's a little company called Reddit. I hope it's going to continue to do well. Of those 50 investments, four are dead. One is a billion-dollar exit, Cruise. Twelve are post-Series A. And six have over a $50 million valuation. And six have over a $50 million valuation. So I don't really actually consider myself that good of an angel investor. I'm fairly certain that there are really big companies that have gone through YC since I've been here that I have not invested in. Thankfully, because I work at YC, I own a percent of every one of them. That's how I sleep at night. So what were my lessons? The first lesson I actually learned about angel investing is you have to write a big enough check. And it's funny because the second I started writing angel investment checks, Sam told me this lesson, and then I ignored him for two and a half years. Sam told me this lesson, and then I ignored him for two and a half years. What you really need to think about when writing an angel investment check is, what are the realistic chances that I'm going to get a return? And how much would I make at a billion dollar exit? I talked to a lot of people who invest a check size that if the company were to become a billion dollar company, they wouldn't make enough money to really impact themselves at all. So then I kind of asked the question, why are you doing it then? And so I've kind of made the mistakes of writing $25,000 checks and I don't do that anymore. So really the way I think about this is like model out a billion dollar exit with dilution, with taxes, and make sure you're making enough money so that when you brag about investing in that company to your friends, you're not whispering in the back of my head, oh, but I only made like $250,000. The next thing that I learned is you have to create a flow, a system to invest quickly. Like oftentimes you have hours or, you know, a day or two to make a decision. So you need to be set up to be able to hear a pitch, sign a clerky document, and wire money. And like investors who like don't know how to set that up, just talk to your banker, whoever else handles your money, figure that out. One of the things we tell YC companies all the time is that an A investor, grade A investor, gives you money quickly, signs the paperwork quickly, and shuts the hell up. That's an A investor. There are very, very few A-plus investors in the world. There are very, very many less than A investors. So don't be one of those people who founders are waiting for signatures, who you sign the paperwork, but I can't send the wire because the money is over here and it's got gotta come over here. Bullshit. If you're in this game, be able to write checks quickly. The last rule that I've learned, Justin, my co-founder, taught me, and he calls it the FOMO slash friend rule. If one of your friends is starting a company and you would have FOMO if it would become a billion-dollar company, just shut up and write them a check. I wish I followed that rule more often. Basically, I would have been much more wealthy. So when it comes to investing in YC, When it comes to investing in YC, and this is kind of where I will end here and open up for questions. The first thing that I think about is if you're there on demo day and you have done no prior research, you need to be prepared to move extra quickly. Because you're going to be in a room of people, some of whom have done their homework. And this isn't the first time they've seen the name of this company on the screen. So don't be surprised when you see a founder moving quickly because there are a lot of people in that room whose primary job is to make money and they've done their work. The second thing that I would think about is you can do your homework too. These companies are launching often, many of them are launching publicly before demo day. You can read about them on the blog, you can read about them on Product Hunt, on TechCrunch, on Hacker News. There's really no reason why you shouldn't already be interested in a large number of YC companies before Demo Day. You can reach out to them. They might not want to meet straight away. They might want to wait until after Demo Day. But certainly, you don't have to see your work starting on Demo Day. The last thing I'll say about Demo Day is that I think not enough investors spend time thinking about what happens after Demo Day. Oftentimes, even very good companies will raise a little bit of money before Series A, six to 12 months after Demo Day. So even if you didn't get a chance to get into a company on Demo Day, or you didn't know they were good, make sure you're maintaining a relationship with that founder. If you can be helpful, be helpful. And oftentimes there's actually an opportunity to invest later that I think people don't realize. And I would argue that for some people who are not going to put in the work up front, it might be better to take a pause and to think about investing 6 to 12 months after. You're definitely going to pay higher valuations. You're going to have more information. And then one thing that PB said that I can't say enough, the most hyped investment on Demo Day is often not the best one. Very, very often. I think what's interesting is that the crowd on Demo Day is just not as smart as it appears. And I've been the beneficiary of investors who are very good at working the room and pumping up the investments they've already made. And it's great when you're a founder because you get to raise at a $20 million cap, which is nice. But needless to say, in my batch in winter 12, my company was by no means the best investment. Justin was in my batch as well. He raised it uncapped, super hyped. Also, it wasn't the best investment. If you were investing in my batch, you probably wanted to invest in a company called Gusto. They're pretty good now. So, with that being said, I just wanted to give you guys kind of some honest truths from my experience. Happy to answer some questions, and I know you guys have a busy day. Thank you. Okay. So, go ahead. So I think that when you're trying to figure out how big of a check to write, what's interesting is that this scales fairly well. So if you have less money, when the billion-dollar company hits, you have to make less of a return for it to have a significant impact. When you have more money, you need to make more of a return to have a significant impact. That really scales your check size. So probably the number one thing I learned and the number one thing I changed was going from 25K checks to 50K checks to 100K checks. If Sam was here, he probably would tell me I should be writing 250K checks. I do also think there's something to an investment having a little bite. Like, just a little bite. Just a little, like, mm, to make you think a little bit more sharply about whether this is a good thing you should be doing. I think you should, to make big returns, you have to write bigger checks. to make big returns, you have to write bigger checks. However, to the point, there's a lot to be learned, and you shouldn't write bigger checks once you have conviction, once you are able to get conviction. And if you go through your angel career thinking, oh, my God, why am I going to put money into Justin TV? It's such a stupid idea and the founders don't have that much talent. Then don't write a big check. But if you can look at this guy and actually notice about Michael that he's actually incredibly articulate. And if you see Justin and you say, he's the kind of guy. And if you meet Justin, you'll see he's the kind of guy, if you punch him in the face and knock him down, he's probably going to get up and punch you back. And you might think, whoa, these guys, it's a stupid idea maybe, but what do I know? They might just make it. And once you get that conviction, then you should write bigger checks. And before then, I wouldn't. I would learn. More questions? What makes an A-plus investor? Well, I'll give you an example. The SocialCam acquisition almost didn't happen, and an A-plus investor nudged it in the right direction. That's, like, pretty big impact. So I would say that it's extremely rare that an investor can have truly big impact. Another investor of ours, Paul Buhite, he basically, through a piece of advice, is the reason why we built a video system, which is the reason why Justin.TV could exist, which is the reason why Twitch could exist. So that was a biggie. I would say there are very specific moments where a really impactful investor can actually change the direction of the company, but that's very rare. So most of the time I tell YC startups to go after a investors many investors claim to be a plus investors it's often not true Other questions? So that's a great question. What are the statistics on YC companies and how well they do? So actually, Aaron works on this a lot more. So he'd be a better person to answer this question. He's coming in on day four. Oh, yes. You should ask Aaron that question. What I will say is that we tell the batch that the vast majority of YC companies will fail. And that's been a message in the kickoff meeting since PG was given. And so that's for sure true. And from my kind of memory of the numbers, series A's tend to happen between 12 and 24 months post demo day. And between 20 and 30% of companies will raise follow-on funding post demo day. Hey, Michael. You mentioned that you missed a lot of the big companies in YC. What happened? If you could concisely say what went wrong in your evaluation, and is there any lessons that can be taken from that? What are they? So when I missed companies, let's say probably two things, and PB covered one of them. One was I was just on the fence and didn't move quickly. And I think the second one is actually strangely unique to YC. I was busy. Like I had a bunch of companies to help. And so my first kind of thought when I go into demo day is not, which company should I invest in? It's how are my companies doing and how do I make sure they do really well so I think that yeah that's it's it's different when you work here a little bit so um so I'll just elaborate for one second because I've missed a lot of really great investments more than I have and I've missed more than Michael has it's true and um and I think there is something that people forget about this, which is to be a great investor is incredibly hard work. So most of you probably don't want to work that hard. You're kind of dabbling, right? So you've got to, again, walk this line. I'll tell you contradictory things. Like if you're angel investing, the last thing you want to do is kill yourself angel investing. But if you really want to be successful, you better get your sense of conviction and then do enough homework so that you can chase after, work hard to get in the deals you want. And if you don't do that, your chances of getting that next big deal go down a lot. A couple more questions? Yeah. So do party rounds scare me? No, not at all. The thing that scares me about cap tables is massively unequal equity splits or cap tables where the foundersqual equity splits or cap tables where the founders have already sold a large portion of their company very early but party rounds don't scare me at all I think I think people talk about them as if they're really scary and like yes you have to get more people to sign more paperwork but as long as you're getting good a investors who sign paperwork quickly I haven't had a problem. I think SocialCam had 30 plus angels. So in terms of how much equity the founders should have, I think the way that I think about this is I model out a Series A that's going to be between 20% and 35% dilution and a Series B that's going to be between 20% and 35% dilution. And I look at where the founder is going to be after that. 20% equity after those two rounds, they probably still have a large amount of work to do to produce a great exit and not very much equity as motivation. And so those I tend to be a little bit more careful about. Interestingly at YC, oftentimes some of the work that we have to do when we ingest companies is help them clean up their cap tables and help convince their previous investors that the way the company is set up right now is actually harmful. So that's actually work we do quite a bit. Identifying what kind of talent? Male Speaker 1 Identifying what kind of talent? Male Speaker 1 You mean from the perspective of acquiring them? So the question is, are large companies today somehow better at identifying talent, I guess to hire or to acquihire, than they were in the past? Yeah, honestly I have no perspective on that. I actually think the number of things that have to go right for an acquisition to happen can introduce many problems, even with very, very smart people. It seems unlikely to me that anything qualitatively has changed in terms of how big companies evaluate startup founders and their talent. One thing to remember and keep in mind is that often startup founders are unemployable. Not always, but often. The best ones. That's very true. Back there. So, So advice on process and getting to yes. So what I will say is that it's a lot easier for us to get to yes than it should be for you to get to yes. It's easier for YC to fund the incremental company. From my, on the angel investing side, one thing I think about is kind of how I think a little bit about baseball. Like when you go up to the plate, you know most likely you're going to strike out. Like you're not going to get on base. And so I think that for me, that's kind of a calming feeling. It's like I can apply as much intellectual rigor as humanly possible, and I'm still going to have a very, very low hit rate. So sometimes I think that people over-intellectualize these decisions. I was talking to one investor who said that in order to get a $2 million check, they had to produce a 100-page document on how this company was going to go. And I was like, wow, that's impressive. And it was a pre-launch company, right? That's probably a lot of waste of time. I think that you have to be confident enough in your process that you're comfortable writing a lot of checks. But I do think that there's diminishing returns with analysis. It's funny. Jeff mentioned it. This is a hard game to be very good at. And that's why, like, for me, what's comforting is that no matter what, I'm making an impact in that founder's life. Even if they don't go on to do a billion-dollar company, I'm helping them take a shot. And someone helped me take a shot. And so even if it all goes to shit, at least I'm kind of continuing that cycle and making a valley a place where people have those opportunities. That should be, in my opinion, like a very big motivation for an angel. Okay. Last question. Mark. So how does YC source? I would say there's two secret powers to YC sourcing. One is we have an open application process. I think investors believe that having the skill to network to an investor is an important characteristic of a good founder. And I think kind of YC's core position from the beginning is that it's not. And so especially in the days now where you can write software with relatively little money that has relatively large impact, the value of networking and being able to raise large amounts of money is less and less. So I would say that's one kind of big secret. The other peak secret PB mentioned, when I go and talk at MIT, my brother's there now, I basically say, what makes this school, the buildings and the professors and the administration, or the students? You put the same students in a C-level engineering school, that's the best engineering school in the country. All you have to do is move the students. So in an interesting way, I think PG kept a very high bar very early when he didn't have to, and that created this trend where people understood that if I'm going to be at YC, I'm going to be around extremely talented people. And as long as we don't screw that up, I think that's just perpetuating over and over and over again. So, I'm sorry, and your second question was? Oh, how do we... Can you just repeat the question, Michael? Yeah, how do we kind of grade ourselves internally at YC because it takes so long to get feedback? It's actually interesting. One thing that we do that I witnessed when I first joined was we ask ourselves, how did we feel? I joined after summer 2012, which was the batch that killed YC, and it looked like a bomb had gone off. Like, literally, partners had, like, this, like, PSD, like, look on their face. And clearly something wasn't great about how that batch experience went. Not, I think, for the companies. They were great companies. But clearly something had to change about the organization to be able to accept that number of companies again. And so I think that's a very important thing that we look at. More recently, we've implemented a Series A program that helps companies raise Series As. And that's basically allowed us to pay a lot more careful attention to what's the path from demo day to the next step. And then I would say the last thing that is kind of glaringly obvious over time is we do a lot of office hours with alumni. And so we don't really get caught, like once you are the group partner for a company, like YC in many ways to that company is you. And so they will keep on coming back. And so you kind of still have to deal with the new class, but you're always writing the story along with the previous classes. And in that way, it's actually, it's interesting to learn about what their experience is, how we could help them better. There's a lot of other things, but I think those are the big boys. And of course we track stats and so on and so forth. But yeah, I think those are the big ones I've seen make a difference. Hey, Michael, thanks very much. Thank you. Okay, now we are well and truly halfway in. We will start again tomorrow at 10 a.m. promptly. And for those of you who left already, you're about to miss my last pearl of wisdom, which is that Michael mentioned what makes an A-plus investor. And one thing that for founders, it's easy to tell when an investor is not an A-plus investor is if they claim to be an A-plus investor. And it's not always, it is good to have a great track record. If you've invested in lots and lots and lots of big companies, it's probably a good sign. But just If you've invested in lots and lots and lots of big companies, it's probably a good sign. But just because you've made a lot of money investing, do not forget there's a significant component of luck involved. And it's great if you all are the lucky ones that pick the one or two or three companies in this batch at YC, for example, that become multi-billion dollar companies. But just because you do that doesn't mean you're an A plus investor. Thanks and we'll hopefully see you all tomorrow.