 So we have two amazing CFOs here today who have partnered with their CEOs right from the growth stage and taken companies IPO. So we have Sarah, who is currently the CFO of Square, and prior to that was SVP of Finance and Strategy at Salesforce, and started her early part of her career at Goldman Sachs. We have Jason, who is currently the CFO of Opendoor. Prior to this, he was the CFO of Groupon and actually took Groupon through the IPO. He started his early part of his career at Amazon and, in fact, was the CFO of Amazon International. So thank you for both for being here. You're welcome. I think I'll spend 20 minutes asking a few questions about the role of a CFO and really when should you think about hiring a CFO, and then we'll open it up for Q&A towards the end of the session. So first, I'd like to ask the two of you, when you joined, Sarah, at Square, how big was Square? And what was your role? And how has your role sort of evolved today? SARAH HANSON- Yeah, so really briefly, so Square, I joined when Square was about three years old, or coming up on three years. We were about 200 people, to give you a sense of scale. We'd had a controller, VP of finance, and when I joined, it was kind of odd to step in and go back to having a total team of 14 people. It was actually delightful. I never understand why people want to manage big teams. I'm like, awesome. And really what Square wanted at that time was not just a pure finance CFO. We had someone who could handle the basics of like all of our accounting and paying people and so forth. But looking for someone who could be more of a strategic partner with Jack and actually Keith was there too as our COO at the time. And that was the fun part. That's actually what really intrigued me to go and do that. And so the role in the beginning was much more about what was Square going to be. We were very much just a single-threaded company, very simple. In fact, we could take a payment for you, but nothing beyond that. And it was really how could we grow to be a much bigger, impactful company over time that would move from taking a payment to helping you manage your whole business to founding products like Square Capital, Payroll, and so on today. And actually, if you look at the arc of what I've done at Square over time, it's everything from the finance piece, managing chunks of the operations,, it's everything from the finance piece, managing chunks of the operations, often it's holding them tight until you can go hire someone much better than you to run it, that's always the key for every executive, frankly, to actually helping found a product. So Square Capital was part of that founding team when we literally took our first bag with money, it felt like, to our first 30 customers to figure out was it a thing. And in Q4, the last results that we reported publicly, we effectively are on a billion-dollar run rate for that product. We loaned about $240 million in Q4 alone. I just recently went back into helping run a product, a very small one, Square Payroll, that we're kind of incubating and trying to see, is this a thing for us? We believe there's massive demand and kind of pretty shitty products out there, frankly, for our target customer set. And so I think being able to kind of balance both the financial elements of, you know, what historically people think of as a CFO, with strategy, with operations, has been, you has been a great way to kind of bring varied skill sets into a company. So something to think about when you go out to hire that CFO. And so you started off with a team of 14 people. How many people do you have today? Gosh, my team is probably around 500 to 600, because I have, beyond finance, all of customer support, success, product teams, actually a fairly big engineering team. So all of our internal engineering, so any product that we make that internal Squares use or things like Squares shop or commerce platform and so on that has to integrate tightly to our broader financial systems, those all get built on my team as well. And that, again, comes back to, it's great when you can, I mean, we are at heart of financial institutions, so being a CFO in a financial institution, you are really part of a lot of the product creation too. Got it. Jason, can you talk about how Groupon was like when you joined, and how did your role sort of evolve? It was basically the opposite of Square. Okay. Oh. Yeah. So I'll give more context. So I joined in December 2010, about five days after Groupon may or may not have turned down a $5.7 billion offer to sell to Google. And so then I joined and they told me on my first day that the bankers were coming in two weeks for the bake-off, even though they kind of knew who they wanted to pick. And I was in charge of selecting the bankers, kind of, and then hiring a team, a finance team, that could handle our recent growth. We just went from one country to 48 in the previous six months with the help of some German brothers named the Samuels. It's a whole different thing. And so then had to get an S1 filed and had two months to do that. So I hired the whole team and spent most of my time doing very core, non-strategic finance stuff, which was how do you actually write a couple hundred page S1 document and then also hopefully understand how the business actually works. It was a relatively simple business, at least one would think, but yet it still seemed to have a fair amount of complexity. We went from during the period when I joined, we had just hit about 700 million run rate in sales, and then we filed actually about five months after I started, and by the time we went public, which was about six months later, my 11-month anniversary, we finished the year at about $4 billion. So $700 million to $4 billion was, well, we can talk about whether or not that's a good time to go public. Anyways, and so, yeah, basically started with a couple dozen people, ended the year with about 500 people, and then had all sorts of bumps and bruises along the way. So the two of you have had really different experiences. So for the founders here, how should they think about when to hire a CFO? What's really, is there a best ideal time? I don't know if there's an ideal time, and I don't know if you should think CFO. I think you should just always be thinking about your leadership team. What are the skill sets that you feel like you're missing? And always hire ahead. So don't just hire for what you need today. That's actually huge learning for me on my team. I remember hiring our treasurer who came from Amazon. And frankly, I was like, you don't have a lot to manage, but we'll think up things for you. And so it's always been about, you know, today he's got a billion dollars on a balance sheet to manage, but he actually manages all of our real estate, our facilities. I mean, it's just one example. But definitely when you're hiring people, you're selling them on where they're going to be in year two or year three, and your mind should be there, too. And I would say the same is true of your CFO. I think the CEO-CFO partnership is exactly that. It has to be a partnership. So, Eden, I think the question you were asking me earlier about how do you know, like, break bread, go out, have dinner with people. earlier about how do you know, like break bread, go out, have dinner with people, like can you actually stand to be around this person for long periods of time because you're going to spend an awful lot of time together. And if it feels weird and you can't just have like you're talking to a friend sort of conversation, don't hire them because I think it gets that personal because you're in the heat of things like an IPO or any sort of crisis that you're gonna go to, you really have to have a real trusting relationship, right? You all know this, because you've got great executives on your team, but no more so than your CFO in some ways. And then I think the other thing that you should look for are people who are not like you. So look for your yang and yang balance. So for me, with Jack, we're definitely very different skill sets, very different opinions, which is great, because it means we don't always agree. In fact, sometimes we can violently disagree, usually via really strong text messages, because Jack doesn't like in-person extroverted fighting, and I love it, so usually I'm trying to track him down to have the argument. But again, it's healthy. Like you want to make sure you feel really comfortable being able to do that because, you know, it is a wild roller coaster that you're on and no business just scales perfectly with nothing ever going wrong. So from my perspective, I think the best time to hire a CFO is definitely earlier than two weeks before the bankers show up. Honestly, I would say probably, I've heard many people that I've talked to in hindsight have said probably about a year at a minimum, just because, and I think that goes for any of the senior executive team, actually. I think what Groupon prided itself in kind of ignoring every conventional approach. If anyone's met Andrew Mason, you'd understand why and how. But I would say that the thing that I often tell people, certainly founders and early-stage companies, and early stage companies is the right time to hire a CFO, I think, is after you feel like you've got the product market fit mostly figured out because generally I think of CFOs, and I also think general counsels can fall in a similar bucket, our job is generally to look around corners and think about all the stuff that can go wrong. And so as a result, if you're still working on trying to get the product fit right, we're probably just going to help you figure out how scary everything you're considering is and how you probably shouldn't do it. And so it's kind of the opposite of breaking glass. And so, you know, it depends on the role. That's if it's kind of more of a product-oriented company. In an operational company where you have to look at contribution, profit per unit, or per unit economics, and you have to figure out how to scale, and you're a ways away from really seeing if the business really works because it's going to be a volume game, then it probably makes more sense to have a CFO earlier. game, then it probably makes more sense to have a CFO earlier, and that CFO is probably going to be more of an operational type as opposed to someone that's more of an accounting and kind of more of a back office expert. Anyways, so that's my spurs and my thoughts. And the kind of, if you look at the Square trajectory, so I came in in 2012 and we went public in 2015, and it is, it was like great to have, because then you weren't just telling a story, you'd actually felt it and built it, and you kind of understood what the, you know, one of the things I think a good CFO does, if ultimately your goal is to go public, is thinking about like what are the right metrics, but both in a good way really highlight why the company's doing really well, and why it has a long runway and a ton of potential, but also make sure they're the right metrics for inside the company. Because frankly, if they're not the same, you're going to be in a world of hurt and pain. And I think if you come in after the fact, you get, it kind of becomes the banker, like our banker opinion of the metrics that we should show. Like, I am so glad we did not. In reality, we show the metrics that internally we all run to, and so there's complete alignment. That didn't always go down well during an S1 process, but it's an incredibly important thing to get right. That's an important point that you brought up, which is about instilling the financial disciplines. So how is... When you joined Square in 2012, were they already tracking a lot of the metrics? And if not, like, what processes did you set in place to sort of bring that financial discipline? Yeah, so discipline is definitely one of the words we used a lot in those first, like, year or two, like what it was we were trying to do. We are a very data-rich company, so we can show you metrics up the wazoo. And so it was actually more about calling back metrics and figuring out the most important. In particular, you know, getting under the hood of you could look at a growth line that was up and to the right, but the key was to actually understand the cohort analysis underneath it and understand the characteristics of, like to actually how to define those cohorts for example those are the things where I think a good a good finance organization frankly it's not just about one person can really get down into understanding the drivers of your business and then being able to say hey when we cut it by this cohort it looks like, you know, what we think is a core value proposition actually isn't resonating. It's been masked by all these other things. So then that's great feedback into your product organization about where your product is going to go from there. So it goes back to it's discipline and making sure the company is kind of holding itself accountable. But it's accountable to the right metrics, not vanity, but to the stuff that's actually going to grow your business over the long run. And so we did a whole kind of relook at what were the metrics we wanted to follow. We actually, less is more, so we culled back a lot to just a couple of core things. a lot to just a couple of core things. And then we got the company on a kind of a drumbeat that was, you know, we went to monthly cadence on goals so that you felt like the power of the drumbeat. Like it couldn't be daily or weekly because, you know, there's so much noise. But also if it was like quarterly, sometimes it was too late. Like you wanted to have tweaked the dials long before the end of a quarter, for example. Got it. And Jason, from your Amazon experience, do you have any pointers on sort of how, what are some of the best practices in financial discipline or even like budget prediction or capital allocation? Sure. So what we did at Amazon was, I think, a bit unique, and that was Jeff Bezos had a very strong point of view that as the CEO, every one of his direct reports has a bias to want to please him. And so therefore, the analysis and the metrics they show are going to try to show that they're doing a great job. And so Jeff is famous for a couple things. One of the things is he optimizes not for a cohesive culture, but a truth-seeking culture. And one of the things he early on required was that every single business leader, actually Jason Kyler, I was his CFO way back in the early 2000s. And one of my jobs was I reported the CFO, but I went to every meeting with Jason, with Jeff, and he would get into business and then we'd look at stuff and then he'd see things. And if things looked really good or really bad, he'd turn to me and he'd say, is this number right? And would you stake your career on it? Or maybe in different words. And his whole point was he wanted to make sure that every analytic, I mean, cohort analytics is a great example. I've seen a lot, you can lie with numbers very easily. Is it a subscriber? Is it a customer? Is it including reactivation? Is it including there's so many ways you can make it say what you want it to say. I think the way we dealt with it at Amazon was always have a very strong partnership. Basically he had all competitive intelligence. We had a lot of the data science type functions, or at least on the analytics and metrics functions, would actually roll up into finance with the idea that they were the truth-seeking group. Their job is just to call it like it is. They're not trying to show a positive bias to show that marketing works awesome or that it doesn't or that ops is really doing a great job in variable cost productivity or not. And so that was actually very, very critical. I joined in 99, so in the early days when we were kind of building the first sets of kind of scalable metrics, to when I left 12 years later, it was very much, you know, pervasive throughout the entire organization. And that's really, I think, Jeff will say, it's one of the key reasons why in a low-margin business where pre-needed economics are measured in the fractions of a penny really, really make a difference and will determine whether or not you're going to be very successful. I want to also touch upon fundraise. Companies, when they're staying private, how much cash should they have in the bank before they decide to go fundraise? And also, can you also touch upon the ecosystem of investors as they scale? The answer is it depends to some degree. It comes back to on the metrics side or what you just talked about, that discipline. There's discipline in getting the metrics right and tracking them, but there's also discipline in the finance group for forecasting accurately. That takes some time to figure out what are the things that are going to tweak your business. Once you can forecast somewhat accurately, then I think you're in the driver's seat of when do I need to fundraise. And it's not a perfect, you know, it's two-sided. But from the demand side, like when do you need to, being able to look at what's your forward projection. We used to talk about we had a, like, what would we not want to dip below in terms of cash available to us on our balance sheet? Like, when would we say, okay, now we're in danger zone? And we kind of felt that was, you know, somewhere in the six to nine months of if, like, the wheels fell off the bus completely. And we couldn't take anything, you know, our costs weren't truly variable, which they are, because ultimately in most tech companies, costs are people, so you can always have fungibility on getting rid of people, but you don't want to get to that point. Would we have enough money available to us? But the key is you have to be able to forecast accurately, otherwise you're kidding yourself. So that was one way we thought about kind of a minimum required amount. And then we would kind of look at the slope of the line as we would get close to that and then work backwards to say, how long is it going to take us to fundraise? On the other side, it's clearly though about the supply. And so like the, you know, my chairman of the board always says like rule number one in the CFO handbook is raise money when you can. So you do have to be somewhat market sensitive, right? We've been in an amazing kind of bull market for the last, you know, since the 08, 09 crisis. But I was joining Square kind of when that was still very front of mind. So I was constantly a little afraid of, like, what if the funding markets just dried up so in some ways I would always think about that too I think over time what I learned was to not be so hyper sensitive on dilution and points of dilution because ultimately if you're going to build a really big company you're just you know you're worrying away about things that won't ultimately matter better to do the fundraising quicker and be done. I think the other thing was being much more front-footed about what quote-unquote perfection was. And I still do this with my team. We say, okay, on this thing that we want to do, like most recently as a public company, we just raised convertible debt. We said, what is perfection? Like how much do we want to raise? What's the rate we want to raise that? Who do we want the investors to be? Okay, let's go make that happen. And so it gave everyone much more direction as well, instead of when you're unsure, I think, whether you mean to or not, you send that message clearly across the table to the people facing you, and so they become unsure. And so it's a big kind of game of we're both really unsure now, so no one can make a decision, versus being very front-footed on perfection. And of course, it's hard to make perfection happen. Then you have to work out what your fallback is, but just being way more deliberate, even with something like a financing. And one last question is, before I open it up for Q&A, companies are staying private longer. So when is the right time to go public? That's a great question. I would say it completely is environmentally driven. And that is, if you have access to the markets like there has been for the last few years, then, I mean, if you want to raise money and you want to have the least amount of administrative kind of, you know, work and support and just stuff to deal with, then private is just going to be easier. That said, ultimately, expectations are at some point, there's always going to be some form of liquidity at some point, there's always going to be some form of liquidity at some point. And so at this point, it seems like there's no real need to go public purely from a capital perspective. There's certainly the other aspects and you can decide if you think they're real, is there a branding event? Is there, does every, you know, every great company eventually is a public company, so better to do it earlier than later. There's a bunch of different, you know, things that you hear people say. I think ultimately it really comes down to, you know, is the company ready, i.e., can they forecast, like Sarah said? Do you know exactly what the next year is going to look like? Because if you don't know what it's going to look like, the market hates volatility. I can tell you from Groupon, hates volatility. And early days at Amazon, everyone loves Amazon now. The first, from 99 to about 2003 or 4, Jeff was the worst CEO in the world, according to Fortune, you know, somewhat reputable. And generally, we were idiots. And so all my friends at Microsoft across the lake were always kind of laughing if Amazon.org was still in business or whatnot. And so, you know, I think it just, it ultimately comes down to, you know, if you have that forecastability, the other thing that's funny is nowadays you only go public when you don't need the cash. Market doesn't actually reward companies that need to go public generally. And so if you have the forecastability, if you have the ability to kind of weather storms before you go into it and it starts to, then you don't have to answer some of the questions about how risky the company is. That said, I don't know, I would also say, what I would do right now is, aside from all these theoretical stuff, I would kind of just say, go look at two case studies and say as a company you're ready to deal with it. Pretend, you know, recent case studies would be pretend you're MuleSoft or Atlassian and would you like to be public? Of course you would. Everything looks like it's up and to the right and looks nice and there's been relatively low volatility. Then go talk to the guys at Snap or talk to I guess now Cloudera or, and ask them, would you have done it differently? And I think that at the end of the day, as long as you're prepared for not just the great case, but the downside case, and you're okay with knowing that what we dealt with at Groupon was every week there was a news cycle. We had 48 countries. We had articles saying, hey, Groupon's going to go out of business or Groupon's making things up or whatnot. The CEO then had to spend roughly 50% of his time dealing with employee questions and trying to convince them, no, no, no, we're not for sale. I'm imagining this week, Snaps had to answer questions about, are we really for sale? I saw that in the paper yesterday. You know, that just takes time. And now you're having to spend time dealing with the fact that once you're public, people can short your stock. And that creates a lot of activity that you have to be ready to deal with. It eventually goes away, but you will have to weather that for some period of time. So I think all those things, you just kind of have to, once you think you have the thick enough skin and you're ready to deal with that stuff, then it'll be fine. Because I do believe of ultimately all great companies need to be public. It's just a matter of are you ready to deal with some of those issues? Good. Any thoughts, Sarah, from- Yeah, I mean, the last point, I used to be a research analyst, I always say stocks trade to fundamentals, ultimately. Or that famous quote about in the beginning, it's a popularity machine or whatever. In the end, the market is a weighing machine. So when you talk to your employees, ultimately, it's about are you growing a big company and are you having an impact out there? That's all that matters to the market. And so helping them focus on the long run and not get overly focused on the market or the short run is the most important thing you could do. Because then you get away from all the noise. The positive about being a public company is everything is in the public domain. Your employees are all shareholders, or at least at Square, every Square's a shareholder. So I talk to them all the time about, we're all in this together. Hey, our filings are out there. You can now see, like way back when we went through a horrible news cycle about how like, how Square was, you know, about to run out of money and go be dead, and it didn't matter, like, we were very transparent as a culture, we still are, and so employees had access to all the financials and could see what we had in our balance sheet, but there was always, like, I think a niggle in the back of their head, like, what if the Wall Street Journal is really right, versus today, like, we have SEC filings. You can't quibble with, like, the strength of your balance sheet, for example. I actually love that. I love the transparency. The key is to get people away from stock watching. And I think how you do that is just actually being very honest from the get-go that this is going to be a tough ride. It helps, like, sometimes if you're right, like,'re right. We went out. It was really tough. I told people it's going to feel awful. You're going to go through a lockup. It's going to feel awful again. There's going to be things that happen that are nothing to do with Square. People are worried about oil prices or China. Clearly nothing to do with our stock. But ultimately, the stock will trade to fundamentals. And so we've kind of had that path. so now there's a lot of credibility, but I think that allows people to get away from the noise and go back to the work, because that's ultimately the only thing we can impact. I think we have time for one question. That's a huge hurdle to get over. It better be a good one. How do you get really accurate forecasting? What are some tactics? How do you get really accurate forecasting? So I think for me, certainly, part of it is, first of all, understanding the drivers of your business. So I usually talk about the equation. what's the equation of this line? Our revenue is F of number of subscribers times average, for us, average ticket size times number of transactions that they're going to do equals total transaction revenue. And then taking each of those and saying, okay, well, what's the equation now of that? And kind of keeping drilling down. I mean, I have an engineering degree, so I think I actually think about it almost like an engineering problem being built up. And then figuring out where are you accurate, always accurate, and then when are you not? And then trying to think through, okay, I'm not accurate here, why not? Is it just insurmountable? Like it's incredibly, I can't predict snowstorms on the East Coast, but that has a huge impact on a commerce business. So I don't want to be in the business of trying to predict the weather. So how do I allow then for what the plus or minus will be on either side of the accuracy of that? And so I think a lot of people just don't ever break it down into like an algebraic equation. They just kind of head scratch and can't understand why they're 10% off. So it's, you know, keeping asking the why, and then digging in on the places where you are least accurate and really getting your arms around that. That sounds kind of like a trite answer, but I find it makes light bulbs go off. Yeah, the only thing I would add is, if you kind of zoom out, high level forecasting is largely broken down into two pieces. You have the revenue and demand side of the business, which is tricky for all the reasons that Sarah just pointed out. Then you have the cost side, and then cost further, I'd break down to what's variable and tied to demand and what's fixed. And so hopefully fixed is pretty easy to forecast. It should be. That's entirely within your control. Variable is going to be tied to demand. And so then the question is, I think, like Jarev said, it's basically, do you understand the inputs to your business? Do you understand the kind of the sensibility of those or sensitivity of those inputs? And there's a variety of ways to do it. I've seen fairly high-level approaches tied to market, you know, market share and market expectations. At Amazon, we used to have, I think, eight different Monte Carlo simulations that would use different dependent variables. One would be customers. One would be different dependent variables one would be customers one would be Units shipped one would be in it sold one would be based on and there was a whole bunch of other ones and at the end of the day we would Over time you would just find out which one had the highest R squared to how your business actually performed at the end of the day it all comes down to I think having some time and Operators that actually understand what those sensitivities are, what are the key dependent variables, and then being able to kind of watch those over time, and over time you'll probably get pretty accurate. Yeah, and the one thing that sparks me when I hear that is the right tool or person for the job. So I think a lot of folks fall back to like their accounting org to try to do that, and they're not by nature kind of schooled in that sort of thinking, and they have a huge place to play in keeping you safe and sound. So I actually like hiring people that have more of an engineering background or kind of an investing banker, consultant, private equity VC background for the team that I use to help me do forecasting because they're just used to that sort of much more open-ended thinking and also being able to do what I just talked about, that kind of parsing a part of a problem. Great. Thank you so much, Sarah and Jason, for joining us today. Thanks for having us. Thanks for talking to us.