 And thank you, Yankee, for being here today with us for our global growth event and for doing this interview with us. So Yankee is the co-founder and CEO of Ofo. Can you describe what Ofo is for our audience? Absolutely. So first of all, Anu, thanks very much for having us. I'm very excited to be here to share our story. So Ofo is the first smart station-free bike sharing program in the world. So what we do is that we provide the station-free bikes and for people to use, to unlock with their smartphones. It's very easy accessible, it's very green, and it's a very smart way of getting around the city, especially for the last mile. Great, can you talk about the scale as well? Like how many cities are you in? How many trips do you cover? Yeah, absolutely. So as of today, we are in 180 cities. We're doing over 25 million trips a day. We have deployed over 10 million bikes already. And we're in right now, globally, 13 countries. The goal here is that by the end of this year, we're going to go to at least 20 countries. Oh, that's phenomenal. I mean, it's truly unique for a Chinese company to really go international this fast. Before I touch into how you did the international expansion, I wanted to hear your story on year one. What was the motivation to launch Ofo? And how did you guys go about doing that? Basically, the company was founded by a group of passionate cyclists. So it was founded in university when we were in university. So the very natural thing is that you have your bike in the university. But I think probably like this something everybody has experienced is that your bike been stolen. A lot in San Francisco, actually, unfortunately. Yeah, so found himself, like, he lost four bikes during his university period of time. So, yeah, so we come up with this idea of what if, like, we have a shared bike system? Like, people don't need to worry about, like, bike being stolen, be like when you go out of a station, right, there's still, like, 1.5 miles to go, but you don't have any transportation methods. You have to walk or something like that. What if we can solve that problem, right? So that's where sort of like the idea came about. I think this kind of last mile commuting problem is, we feel that in China, but right now we know like it's actually universal. It's everywhere, right? There is not a, before us, there is not a very good solution for that. So yeah, that's where we came from. And it's very natural, like any other startup in the world, we came up from wanting to solve a very simple pain point of people's regular daily life. So yeah, we started in 2014 in university, right? Which university was it? Beijing University. Okay. Yeah. So basically, that's where the founding team studied. So basically, we started from there, and we spent some time to expand to 200 universities at the beginning. And starting from 2016, end of 2016, we expanded to the cities. So in the city markets, because we have the experience of running operations and all the systems within the university. So in the city, it's a different scenario, but there are a lot of things we can borrow. So we scale really quickly. We spend eight months to expand to over 170, 80 cities. Oh, wow. And China also includes some international cities. Right now, mainly in China. And the trips grew from, at the beginning, it was 200,000 trips last year. Right now, it's over 25 million. So there's a big growth there. Yeah, so that's sort of like our story and our trajectory. Yeah. So I wanted to go back a little bit on the first year when you launched in the university. How did you launch? Did you make your own bikes? Because you obviously wanted to move from doctor stations to something that people could access anywhere. So what was the supply in the first year? Yeah. So it's very interesting because at the beginning, the idea was to use like we call the 100% sharing model. It's like we use the existing bike to sort of like as a supply source. So in China, well, China is called the kingdom of bicycles. We have a lot of bicycles. So when we started the business, we look at the statistics, the annual sales of bike and an existing stock of bike. Actually, in China, we have 400 million bikes. So it's very natural thoughts like, what if we activate that existing supply, right? Just like Uber or Diddy for my channel. Yes, it's like huge amount out there. So that's what we did at the beginning. So basically, what we do is that we go out there and telling people through different channels, like we're doing this shared bike program, and everybody's welcome to donate their bike to our system. We start something like we call Exchange One for N, which means you donate your bike, and then you have access to all the Ophel bikes in the system. So we thought that people would love it, and a lot of bikes would be donated. But what actually happened is that it's a very new idea, first of all. And second is that not actually many people are willing to give up their personal positions than share. At the beginning, it's hard for people to quite understand the idea. So at the beginning, the supply growth is actually quite slow. Every day, I think we collect 30, 40 bikes. That's the number. At the same time, like, the demand actually grew very fast. Like, when we put the first batch of bike on the street in university, people just love it. It's explosive. Like, people, like, talk about it in different, like, forums, everything. Like, people love it. Only thing is that people complain is they cannot find the bikes. They saw students riding bikes, but they cannot get one for them because there's not enough bikes. So that was the moment really we started to think the supply growth is very bottleneck for us. So how do we solve this? So I think back in 2015, we came up with this idea of going to the largest manufacturers in China, which is in Tianjin. It's a city very close to Beijing. That's where most of the largest bike manufacturers are in China and in the world. So we go talk to them. Basically we start this to expand the idea of sharing, bike sharing. So it's not just about sharing the existing stocks, but also about bringing the new bikes that the manufacturers tend to sell, plan to sell to the individual buyers to our platform to be shared by people. So on average, our bikes are 20 times more efficient than the private bike. On our platform, on average, one bike serves over 20 users compared to one private bike serving one people. So we came up with this idea and then we approached them and then we started to have a small trial at the beginning because we do not have much funding in the beginning. So we buy some bikes and then we put it in the university. And also, when you have your own suppliers, it's very easy to control the qualities and also the colors and the bike itself. So you have 100% control of your supply. And that's when we call the small yellow bike was born. So we have that. Back then, it's like we have the bikes and we paint the bike, but it's not very good. So when we have our own supply... So you painted the existing bikes? Yeah. So back then... Which you you painted the existing bikes. Yeah. So, back then... Which you were sourcing from others. So, we painted bikes. Sometimes we don't paint. We just, like, use the bike and add our lock. So, when you walk in university, you see our lock. That means that's an awful bike. So, it's not very easy to identify sometimes. And also, like, there are different bike types. So yeah, so basically like the new model works better. So that's the solution we find to scale our supply and it works out pretty well. And very quickly we expand to like 10 universities, 50 universities, and we spent a year to expand to 200 universities, which is quite a lot in China. 100% market share, profitable, and the people love it, students love it. And so yeah, so that's how our story begins. 100% market share, profitable, and people love it. Students love it. And so, yeah, so that's how our story begins. So you expanded to 200 universities by the end of first year. Yeah. So basically we started, well, like graduate pick it up, and we started in 2015 of this, like, new model of purchasing the bikes and expand. And we spent a year from 2015 to 2016, and we're focusing on expanding to different universities because universities, like, it's a closed area. In China, most of your universities have, like, the walls. So it's sort of like a natural closed area where, like, you don't need to worry about, like, a bike being taken out of the university because we hire people. Our staff are at the gate. People cannot go out. They see a bike and they block it. It's very easy. Also, it's a much simpler environment in terms of the user behavior. Students is where they live, where they go, where the libraries, refectories, the gyms, the football fields, the dorms. It's very easy to do the rebalancing. It's very simple, I would say, the scenario. So I think that one year actually gave us a lot of insights, a lot of practice about how to organize the operation. Even back then, we do not have a very smart system. We use Excel sheets. We use sometimes just write down at different universities. But that gives us a very good experience on how to manage a ground team. So how many people we need, how many bikes, and how to maintain the bikes, and what bikes we need. Because people will see a bike been broken, and how do we do rebalancing, right? So how much time in advance do we need in what scenarios? So actually, we have a lot of experience and being playbooked into our operation model in that year, which is where we can borrow for the city expansion. So I think that's one of the most important reasons why we can expand so fast, scale so fast in the city expansion. So I think that's one of the most important reasons why we can expand so fast, scale so fast in the city. Because when you figure something out in a smaller scale, I think it's sort of like a natural business development. Yeah, sort of like a trajectory. It's like when you figure something out in a small environment and then you gradually take it out. And also, at the beginning, we do city expansion. We do not just go to a lot of cities. We go to districts in Beijing and Shanghai. And we try to have a managed expansion and have some experience. OK, this is how it feels like in the city and how people use it. This is how should we do rebalancing. Because in university, it's very easy. Like we use certain type of vehicles to do the shifting and rebalancing stuff. But in a city, different city has different regulations. So for example, in Beijing, we can use this three-wheel electric vehicle to sort of like to move the bikes, which is very efficient. But in a lot of southern cities in China, like Shenzhen and Guangzhou, the cities, these vehicles are banned. So we have to find different vehicles. Sort of like sometimes we need to modify some of the small vans to do the rebalancing. So yeah, all this kind of challenges specifically in the city, we need to tackle. It's an interesting observation here. It's even though you're very different from a social network, I think Facebook often talks about that. Like the learnings for them was the fact that they did a university and university rollout. First they figured out Harvard, then Stanford. And then, you know, before they opened it up to basically to everyone, they had 80% penetration in universities in the U.S. And they talk about how they figured how to build the products so that there was high engagement in universities. So it's a very interesting parallel. And so I wanted to ask you, when you were in 200 universities, how did you decide when to switch to the city and what motivated you to switch to the city? And how did you think about, you know, because as you said, for all the elements, why the university is so different from city, how did you tackle that first city that you went to? Yeah, I think there have been discussions of going to the city very early, right? So probably like from day one. I think there are a lot of conditions of going to the city, right? So we need a lot more bikes than in the university. And the bike itself needs to be upgraded because in the university we use simple bikes, regular bikes. In the city, probably we need to use bikes with gears, bikes with like much more like a lot of like anti-theft features being implemented which will increase the cost and everything. So, yeah, so basically we spend a lot of time, first of all, researching, developing the bikes that we need for the city, and we expand operationally to the universities. That's what we do in the first year. And at a certain point, we think that, first of all, we're ready on the product side, and also, like, we're ready on the operation side. And third is also on the market, right? So we think that in China, I think there are 2,000 universities, but side. Third is also on the market. So we think that in China, I think there are 2,000 universities, but the best ones are like the top 10%. So we have quite good coverage of the good quality universities, which has the best, I would say, the campus construction and also the university students' quality and everything. So basically, so basically you feel like in the US you have all the Ivy League or the UC system, right? So we have all that. So we think that, okay, so the next stage probably we can go to the city. Also in terms of the team, right? At the beginning, the company was founded by a student project, but later we upgraded the team and at a certain point we have the city management, city operation management team set up. We think that's the time because when we go to the city, we want to make sure that that is a win. And we have, so this is sort of like a bet we take. So we need to make sure we have the necessary resources, the necessary team and product ready before we go to the city. So that was the moment. I think last year, I think November, October, November was the moment like we think, okay, we're ready, right? We start expecting. Got it. Can you also talk about the playbook for each city? So when you're desiring to launch in a new city, what's the first step? Is it hiring a city GM? Is it putting up a wait list? What is it? Yeah. So how do we launch cities both domestically and internationally? Is that first of all, we would do a research. We would do a city list digging into which cities are the target cities. So we look at a lot of metrics. I think there are over like 20 of them, like including the population density, like the credit card penetration, the smartphone ownership, how the city is planned, and also like the price for the public transportation, for taxi, how much money, how much money the household average spend every month on transportation and stuff. All this like metrics, et cetera, et cetera. There's a formula. So we come up with a city list, a market size, and also what's the history of the local 30s about the new technologies, new companies, and all these. We quantify it, and then we have a list of cities out there in China and internationally. So we find the cities. So that's sort of like what we call Air Force approach. Like you look at it, and then we look at the marine approach. So we send people on the ground, sort of like the launchers or basically the launchers. Sometimes we send operation managers as the launchers, but some people on the ground. How many people do you send? In China, actually, because we're already in 200 universities to start with, so we have teams in 200, not 200 cities, but I think 50 cities. So we have very good resources. We just have some people to go to the city to do some testing and stuff, so it's easy to start. But for international markets, we do need to hire launchers and send them. But the hiring process started a few months before the launch date of their national business. So yeah, we hire the people. Most of them are Chinese at the beginning. They have experience of leaving international countries or doing business there and stuff. So we send the first batch of launchers, landing team on the ground. Is it like five to ten people? Something like that, yeah. So I think it's like ten plus. Ten plus, okay. So it's a different, like one people to one country, something like that. And then they go there and they launch the, do the basic setups, right? And, well, first of all, they need to do, what they need to do is that actually the market research, the green light process. So So, they go there, spend like a week or two actually to cross-check with what the Air Force has found. So, all those metrics, what it's really like and how people think about and everything and talk to people. Actually try out the local public transportation and feel about experience and everything. So, yeah. So, the green light process will take one week or so, one or two weeks, and then we have them start to establish the basic foundations of the company. So we'll start to initiate contact with the local authorities. We start the recruiting process because, well, like I said, we need a local team to run the business in the long term. So they start to recruit the local people. What's the team composition initially for a local team? What are you looking for? Is it GM with few support? What's the structure? Yeah, so the ideal structure would be a GM, city GM, and with operation because we're quite heavy on operation. So maybe one or two operations, one in terms of managing the maintenance stuff, one is managing the bike. So it's like operation. And also One in terms of managing the maintenance stuff, one is managing the bike. So it's like operation. And also on the marketing side, we also need people to do the user acquisition, the PR, like the things. But in terms of hiring orders, so it's the city GM and the operation team and the marketing team. But sometimes to find the city GMs is slower, so it's not very fast. So we probably start with the operation team side. So yeah, every city is different. So most of the city are run by launchers. So launchers are everybody, right? So launchers are doing everything. So it's like that. And it's very similar to most of the expansion model by other internet companies, I would say. Only one difference is that we are operation heavy. So basically, we'll put more, I would say, their attention on the operations side. So that's how we do it. So yeah, so basically, that's the basic structure. Can you talk a little bit about the operations? Because it's a little different from ride sharing, right? Ride sharing, you have someone who's driving their own car and you're requesting via the app and it helps you take point A to point B. At Ofo, you have your supply of bikes. And people can drop it anywhere and pick it up anywhere. So can you talk about what does the operations entail? Yeah. So the operations, there's different categories. So the most important ones are the bike deployment, the bike balancing, the bike maintenance. So these most important ones are the bike deployment, the bike rebalancing, the bike maintenance. So these are the key things. So at the beginning, obviously, we have the bike in the city, and basically we ship bikes from China or some factories in Europe and in different parts of the world. So when we have the bike, when the bike enters the city, it's the operation team's responsibility to maximize the efficiency of the bike. So basically, deployment, right? So where to put the bike to begin with, right? For example, like in small cities, it's easier, right? So it's just like put in a city, like the transportation hub. But for big cities like London, like San Francisco, like, well, we're not in San Francisco. Well, we're not in San Francisco yet, but if we do, probably we start with one district instead of going to the whole city. So basically, we will find either the most bike-friendly or the most dense city in terms of population. There are some criterions you can use to find those locations and then you start to deploy bikes. And also, there's another criterion that I think you can look at is where are the areas in the city where people open our apps most frequently before we're in the city. So we see that heat map. OK, this area actually, maybe it's a student area, like a lot of Chinese students. So they're used back in China. That's how you found out about Singapore, right? Yes. So in Singapore, we see that heat map. We say, okay, when we try to decide which is the first national city to go, we see the global map where we have the most user activity before we're in the city. So we see Singapore, obviously, is the most popular one. And we go there and, yeah, so the business took off very quickly. Yeah, so that's, and there must be some areas in the city like has that factor, but that's only one thing to consider, right? So there are different things. And also like in some places like we talk to the government and there's some areas like it's, the local authorities need us to provide assistance. For example, in Austria, we have very good relationship with local authorities. We started with District 2. And the second district we go is the District 21, which is, I would say, in that city is kind of far away from the center. And it's less mobility options for the citizens. And if we go there, it's actually add up to the mobility that people can have there. So yeah, so this type of things are all into our considerations. So basically, our principle is that we go to the city, we want to help the city solve their mobility problems, we want to listen to the city what they need, and we provide our solution. So that's our way to work with the cities. So, yeah, so I think whenever we go, we make sure, like, we have that conversation. We be transparent. We're transparent with the local people and local authorities on what we are and what we can do to make sure, like, it's a win-win situation. Yeah. And you're present in the U.S. now, right? Yes. So we launched Seattle. Okay. And I think we launched two cities in the East Coast, in the greater Boston area as well, and more cities in the continent. Great. So what do you think? Many people are skeptical about the U.S. for bike sharing. And I know you've often told me that even in China, you changed the behavior of the people to use bike sharing. So what's your view of the US? Do you think that there's enough demand for the bikes? And do you think there'll be a behavioral change? Yeah, so I think we can sort of like take one step back and ask the question of like, what a city needs, right? No matter if it's a Chinese city, US city, like What city needs? What do people living in the city need? So I think to get around the city, get around the city in a smarter, greener, more affordable and more accessible way, I think it's always better. So if there is something you can use, like match all these criterions above, people must use it. So that's our basic assumption. So if that assumption stands, I would say like there are actually not quite big difference between city to city in the world in terms of like what city needs. So that's where we start to think. So secondly, obviously, like there are different characteristics of different cities. Some cities are more dense. Some cities are more sort of like, I would say, the hilly than the others. Some cities are more like the public transportation development stage is different. People in different cities, people are willing to spend different money on transportation. cities people willing to spend different money on transportation. For example, in Brazil, the average household spending on the transportation is 30% of their income. So that's super high. But maybe in the US, it's much lower. And also, what people's habit, like existing behavior. For example, in Paris, the percentage of transportation by bike is only like single digit, like 3% to 5%. But in Amsterdam, it's 30%. It's 10 times higher. So yeah, every city is different. But the thing is that, first of all, the last mile commuting problem is universal. Number two is that I think for most of the cities, people need, I think, like, well, most cities, people don't have sort of like a very convenient, like a smarter and a cheap way of getting around the last mile. So that's where we are and where we kick in. So I think U.S. cities also have that sort of problems or like characteristics. Obviously, I think in San Francisco, in Los Angeles, in New York, the cities are very different. But I think we're very confident our solutions will be something people have never experienced before. And we are here to solve the problems. Probably we need to make some product upgrades, like adjustments. Probably we need to make some product upgrades, like our adjustments. Probably we need to make some operation adjustments. But in terms of making adjustment to adapt to local markets, I wouldn't say like US market is very different from, let's say, Japan or France or UK. So we make adjustment all the time. That's what we do. Got it. Great. Yeah. And a few adjustments are obviously needed. That's what we do. Got it. Great. Yeah. And a few adjustments are obviously needed to cater to the local markets. Let's talk about electric bikes because I know you've briefly mentioned that. So what's the vision for Ofo going forward? Yeah. So if you look at the trip distance right now, first of all, like in the city, right? So it's actually most of the distance are short? So short trips in the city. And you can see, like, what we do as a bike sharing company, regular bike and mechanic bike, right? So what we do is that normally the trip distance ranges from 300 meters to 3 kilometers. That's where, like, the bike people, distance bike can help. So that is, like, for every city. That's good. All right. So obviously I think the natural next step is that we want to extend on both ends. Well, on the short ends, like we see that happening already. People are getting lazier. So it's like before that people are willing to walk 300 meters, but right now with bikes even like 100 meters, I take a ride. And probably we don't need to do much things on there, just improving the riding experience. On the far end, probably like there are a lot of things to do. So with mechanic bikes, we are constantly improving our riding experience. Right now we see a very steady growth of the trip distance. From three kilometers, right now it's close to four kilometers. So people tend to ride longer when it's easier to ride. But I think with electric bike, that far end of the distance can be extended significantly, probably to 3 kilometers to like 10 kilometers. So that can actually cover most of the trips that are done in the city. So basically, just imagine like in the city, people ride electric bikes and there will be a lot less cars in the city. So basically, just imagine like in the city people ride electric bikes and there will be a lot less cars in the city, right? The pollutions, the congestions, the accidents, like all these things will be massively reduced. Much better for the environment. Yeah, you'll see like people... Like the city is getting better. The people are also like in terms of price, right? You can take cars, it's expensive, right? So owning a car is expensive. So yeah, so like you think about how people get from point A to point B in the city, regardless of what, like vehicles we use, we always think about like what is the most economic way, safe way, green way, right way to get around, to complete that distance. So we're trying to find more advanced vehicles to satisfy that demand. So I think e-bike is a very natural option of that. And also, I saw there are companies here, like Scoot, similar things to do that. So yeah, we're very optimistic. And actually, we have e-bikes in China being tested in different cities, and we see very promising results on that. Obviously, there are different economic metrics. There are different, like, models, right? So how to change the batteries, how to sort of, like, charge the batteries, and how to do the operations will be different. But I think e-bikes is one of the things we're going to put efforts on in the future. Got it. Great. And how big is the team right now? So in China, we have 2,000 plus employees. It's a big team. And for international, we have a bit more than 100. So it's still very early stage. And yeah, so I think the principle of the company in terms of hiring people is that, well, obviously, we're a very lean team. We hire the best of the best. And we also love to have people on board who share the same passion with us. So we want to really make changes of the world, of the city, like on how people get around and provide more options, more choices to the people. So yeah, so that's us. How do you think of your product when, you know, self-driving cars are pretty much dominant everywhere in the world? Today, there's obviously more challenges they need to solve to go to level five automation with computer vision problems and solving the last mile. But in a world where you have pretty much self-driving cars, how do you see O4 bike sharing or electric bikes playing a role? Yeah, yeah. First of all, I'd love to see that day. I'd love to experience that. So, yeah. So, first of all, I think even if people have choices like autonomous driving cars everywhere, still there will be a very huge demand in terms of the bike sharing. I'm not sure whether we're going to rule out self-driving bikes. But even if you consider the current product. So, I think there are a lot of advantages here. Number one, I would say, is the density. So you look at how the city is planned. Maybe in San Francisco, the car can go to almost everywhere because the city is blocks and everything. But in many cities, like in Southeast Asia, in developing countries, like in China, there are a lot of small roads. Car cannot get in. Obviously, there are arguments. You can probably put the driverless car...when you take the driver out of the car, you can change the shape of the car like it looks like a Batman's motorbike, something like that. You can do that, right? So, yeah. But with that being said, still, I think density is something like the shared bike has an advantage on. Number two is cost. So basically, a autonomous driving car is a beautiful product. But my thinking is that to manufacturing that, to put in the skill, is going to require a lot of investment. And to operating that system and to use that system is going to be very costly. So it's like, you think about it, right? Especially at the beginning of that, you still need a lot to maintain the system, right? And at the same time, I would say, how much, what is the pricing of taking a autonomous driving car? I don't know the pricing, but my imagination feels like a fancy service and could be kind of- Well, the cost of making a car is significant, but the driver cost in the right channel should go away, ideally. Yeah. So basically, for the bike itself right now, we do not have a driver. We do not have a cost of energy. We don't have electricity. So it's all manpower. So it's like cost-wise, we're going to be much lower in terms of initial... So can you compare the cost per trip today on an O4 versus a Didi? Yeah. So I mean, well, Didi is not self-driving yet. Yeah. No, just based on today, because that's an interesting observation. Yeah. So I think there's a few main categories. So number one is the driver opportunity cost. So basically, for a ride-sharing model, you need to pay the driver. When he gets online, there's always charging. So it's like you need to pay for him the hourly rate or whatever rate. There's a cost there. And that is a variable cost. So basically, like, you do one more trip, there's always, like, a driver's take on that, right? So that's number one. Number two is the energy cost. So basically, right now, most of the cars are running on gasoline, right? Maybe some on electricity, but still, like, most of them are on gasoline. So there's a huge cost there. Also, that one is variable cost. So for every trip, the more distance you travel, the more you pay for the gasoline and for the driver. So these costs are not going to go away. But for bikes, most of the cost we have is fixed cost. So basically, the cost does not go up as we scale, as we do more trips. So at the beginning, when we have less users, like the bike, or maybe the bike user twice a day, right? So that's how the structure is. But later, when we have more users, the biker use like five times. In universities, sometimes go up to 10 times. So when that comes, the cost does not go up when we increase the number of trips. So still, we pay the same amount of salaries to the maintenance workers. And with our smart system, actually, their working load does not increase. Still, when they manage 200 bikes, they spend time to repair maybe 30 bikes a day. And when we have them, like, manage 1,000 bikes a day, what we do is that still, like, maybe repair 35 bikes a day. Got it. So still, like, that doesn't go. But the efficiency, the cost, operation cost per bike actually goes down a lot. Because you get more leverage. Yeah. You know, 20, you said, like, you get 20 rides a bike, right? In some universities, we can get to 20. And our record is over 100 times a day. So that is, well, that is, I saw it once. So, but normally it's like 10 around in university. So, yeah, so it's quite a different model. So for us, it's more like a rental model. For ride sharing, it's more like a ride sharing model, I would say. And well, if you think about like autonomous driving, model. For ride-sharing, it's more like a ride-sharing model, I would say. And while if you think about autonomous driving, obviously, you take the driver out. So there is no cost for the driver. That's a massive increase of the efficiency. But still, like I said, there's a maintenance cost of the car. I think that would possibly be higher than a maintenance cost for a bike. And also, there's density issues, and there's also the system management. So it's like, I don't know too much about the autonomous driving, but my guess is that the total cost of operation and management will not be cheap. And maybe higher than what it takes to do a bike. Yeah, maybe. I don't know. Maybe the total cost is even higher than the car system a bike. Yeah, maybe. I don't know. Maybe the total cost is even higher than the car system. Yeah, probably. Yeah, only time will tell us. That's true. Yeah, we will see. We will see. Yeah, but I'm pretty...I'm a big fan of autonomous driving, so... Got it. Yeah, I'm supporting that. Well, thank you so much, Yankee. too much.