 Hey guys, today we have Ticon Bernstam, multi-time YC founder. So could you just start by explaining how you first found YC? Yeah, I actually found YC because I was on Reddit. I was in graduate school, which meant I had a lot of free time. And so Reddit was super early. This is back when the top post might have like, you know, 10 points. And this is like before it even had comments. And via that, I found Paul Graham's essays on how to do a startup. And to me, the idea of doing a company was basically impossible. This is after the bubble or after the dot-com crash. Everyone had basically declared like the web was over. Like that's all done now. Um, and so it was very like Paul Graham's essays were really the only source that I had found, um, that kind of said that actually here's, here's a pathway to do it. And like, it can be done. And I was super interested in that. I applied to YC on a, like really as like really on a long shot. I didn't think I'd get in. Um, and so I interviewed, um, in Palo Alto and although the actual program was still back in Boston and in Cambridge and I got in, so I just dropped out of graduate school. Um, what were you studying? Uh, physics, actuallyoretical physics. But I studied computer science and econ in undergrad. So that was kind of a small change. And so, yeah, so I dropped out of grad school and moved to Cambridge. And so then, yeah, me, Tripp, and Jared probably worked on, like, Scribd for at least, well, well yeah we worked on Scribd for at least like a year and a half before we got like real traction on it um so this is back in summer 2006 and what was the initial pitch for Scribd like in the application well yeah so Scribd was actually like one of those pivot companies where like we applied with different ideas and then like much like reddit was actually a pivot company where like it was actually applied for as something else like it's like food delivery stuff really paul's like yeah paul's like i love you guys steve and alexis but i hate that idea how about this kind of thing yeah uh steve's talked about that before um and so similarly like script actually was actually the merger of me trip and jared like during during YC they were working on some other project and like it was like a Craigslist for colleges back then Craigslist was super hot so like everyone was trying to do much like nowadays everyone's doing like uber for X like back then it was Craigslist for X. Glory days on the internet but but then youtube sold for over a billion and people so that was insane you know oh my god google overpaid which you know totally wrong and so then youtube became the hot one so that then we said like let's do youtube for documents like that that was literally like the thinking and i mean we'd also notice this problem where trip's dad who's at who's at the stanford med school was having trouble like basically viewing the documents like online that that like he wanted to read um and like not he didn't have like the right reader and like sometimes i'd send my mom like a postscript file and she'd be like how the hell do i open this people were just downloading it and then they needed to download like acrobat or? Yeah, because back then if you had Adobe Reader, I don't think that actually opened up PostScript files back then. Maybe it did, but a lot of default viewers didn't. It just depended on your OS and what sort of default software you had bundled. But anyway, we just decided why don't we allow the documents to be embedded inside of the webpages. And we started off with Flash, but we had always hoped that we could switch to HTML5, which we did much later. Okay. And so what was the YC experience? So Summer 06, what was it like? It was great. So this was back in Cambridge. Honestly, we would never have made it without that program. And I think that's true of actually most of those companies. And I'd argue probably most of the companies. Because without that community of like-minded people who are highly motivated and working on the same general pathway as you, and also people who've done it before, like Paul, Jessica, Paul, JL, Trevor, and like Robert, who were basically there to like, kind of like, no, you guys are like, that's stupid. Get like, get back on course. Because sometimes we would just go the wrong way for like a whole week, like before we'd see them and we'd show them and they'd say, what the hell are you guys doing? And they were always right is the thing. So like, it's, I mean, it saved us years, and the company wouldn't have worked without them. And so I'll always be grateful for that. And all the batches were small back then. I think Scribd Summer 06 was the second batch. So still my best friends are the people from, like, the Summer 05 and Summer 06 batch in Cambridge. And that's, like,'s going on over a decade, just because those were the only people I knew doing startups. And they were the people I talked to. And it was great, because one day you think with startups, one day you think your company is going to fail. You think you're getting sued or something. Someone's threatening you. And the next day, you think you're going to sell to Google for a huge amount, just because some person at M&A accidentally emails you. And so having other people going through the same thing, like the Twitch guys kind of working on their stuff, which took over a decade. And back then it was Kiko, which switched into Justin.TV. But having those people around in that community and then the guidance of the partners is probably the only reason that we survived. And so how much money were you getting from YC at that point? It was not the same as it is now. Yeah, back then it was fixed. It was $6,000 per person. So overall, we took in $18,000. Congrats, that's huge. we almost sold the company for that much um and and so i mean obviously the money lasted what did you do with it like people get way more now yeah i'm always amazed how much people get now because the seed rounds today are bigger than like the series a that dropbox and airbnb did with sequoia which i think was roughly a mil each. And so I'm like, how did you guys spend all that money usually? I say people run out. But back then, we struggled. So for a couple of years, I was living on savings. I was basically living out of Tripp's parents' house at Stanford. And his mom was getting irritated because I keep eating all the candy. And I was subsisting on Top Ramen and whatever food was available in their cabinets. So Trip, Jared, and I worked for months basically out of his living room. And without the generosity of his parents to even let us do that. And did you raise after YC? We did not. Was it a while? Back then, fundraising was very very very different than it is today um also just the environment in cambridge is so much different than the valleys but back then like the mood was so gloomy and like startups are over sort of thing that like it took a really there actually just weren't that many angels around there weren't that many people who had either gotten who had exited or like who wanted to do that sort of thing. I mean, now Demo Day is oversubscribed and such, but back then it wasn't. Back then, I don't think it was even a full room, actually. And so you were just basically living off savings? Scribd wasn't making enough money? We stretched that 18K pretty darn far. Yeah, I mean, if you can somehow, as long as you can get your rent low, you can live for a long time. Okay. Do you know approximately how long that actually went? Well, I mean, yeah, it was another year after YC. So we scratched by on that. And I mean, being a wealthy grad student, no. So having zero savings, like if really any of us, cause Trip had just left Harvard, Jared dropped out of Harvard to do this. So we just really like, we really tried to make every dime count. And so how long did you work on script? Yeah. So started like, like I said, summer 2006, I left about five and a half years later. I talked to the co-founders. I said, listen, I think if we're not going to go more B2B, more like enterprise-y, I think that I should probably go because I'm really interested in doing something in that space. And so they were like, okay cool. They actually invested in my next company, which was parse which we basically Actually, so it was actually two of us who left it was me and James you from scribd We James was actually I think our first hire at script and so he and I were close friends and that's the law and so We left and the very next day we were coding and working on the prototype of what was not Parse. It was something else. So, okay, Parse. What was that idea? There were actually 12. We made 12 different landing pages. Well, because with Scribd, we would spend about one month on every idea and build out an app and then test it. And that's kind of why it might have taken longer. With Parse, we said, let's not waste a year. Let's make 12 landing pages and kind of launch them and then see if people even give us an email. And B2B products? Yeah, and things that made money. Because I think in B2C, it's much harder to gauge whether you have a long-term traction or not or if you're chat roulette or something um and so um yeah so we basically had 12 different pages that we launched like what one was an api for companies to send gifts to like their best users because that's scribbed i always like wanted to like send gifts to people who uploaded like 100 documents it'd be nice to do that programmatically i don't think that even exists still um so like then we just looked if people clicked on the pricing page and if they'd send up and put an email in and then anyone who typed in their email we would email them being like why did you sign up for this like this was a crappy landing page that we made in like two hours wait how are they getting to the landing page where you do like outbound marketing for any of this stuff? ShowHN was basically, this is before Product Hunt, so it was mostly ShowHN. It was on Twitter. You were doing ShowHN landing pages. Yes, like ShowHN, this service exists. Actually, Parse launched that way too. Parse launched as a landing page. Really? Yeah. Back then it was called ZStack. And we didn't own the parse.com domain, which we only got later thanks to the Stripe founders and Stripe CTO. And so, yeah, it was called ZStack. We launched a landing page. Again, just we wanted to make sure people actually wanted this thing. Because we knew from our own experience building mobile apps at Scribd, at other companies, that everyone was sort of reinventing the wheel redoing the same sort of like code that like like push notification type stuff that really could be generalized um and back then like aws was kind of just still very much in its infancy but you could see the need for like heroku had just sold for uh 250 million to salesforce so like the pitch of like heroku for mobile like kind of was like a very, like I actually dislike X for Y pitches now, like all these now Uber for Xs. But you were riding those waves in the past. Yes. Yeah. I am 100% guilty of doing those in the past. And so we actually, I think the pitch deck I used at YC at the demo day was, yeah, it was Heroku for mobile was like actually the title of what the company was. Okay. And just stepping back a little bit, what made you decide to go with ZStack versus the other 11? Yeah. It was actually talking to the users. So we had talked to the users. But to be clear, there was no product for any of them. So Parse to the users. But to be clear, there was no product for any of them. So Parse is more complicated. Parse is actually the merger of three independent entities. So Ilya was a solo founder in Parse, working on like a find your friends app sort of thing, which was very popular at the time. And Kevin wasn't even in YC. Kevin emailed, Kevin had been in YC previously and then was working at Google, emails Paul and says, listen, I want to get back into startups. Like, if you have anything, let me know. Paul emails the list like, hey, there's this great guy, great hacker. Like, you guys should like talk to him if you're looking for a co-founder. And so James and I met with Kevin. Ilya met with Kevin. We ended up all trying to work together for, um, for, for like a couple of weeks and like just to see if we'd harmonize. I mean, I don't advise people work with people they don't know. Um, but it, Hey, it worked for Twitch. Uh, yeah, it's worked for some people. It hasn't worked for a lot of people. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Um, okay. So what were those two ideas then that merged? Oh yeah. So we were actually more in the payments space. So James and I were interested in the recurring subscription billing space where people still have trouble actually getting recurring billing working. I mean, it's getting better now thanks to Stripe. So stuff for normal people basically take payments that were recurring. I mean, we were still very much in the ideation phase where we were very happy to pivot to whatever was kind of whatever we felt would be like the best type of business. And yeah. And then basically we also started working on parse and and we basically launched that landing page uh pretty quickly into yc um and we launched it on hacker news on it was a show hn uh it was called z stack.com i think at the time and so what were like what was the pitch it was literally a theme forest theme it was like a nine dollar themeorest theme that has these hot air balloons on it. You can still buy it today. It was basically Heroku for mobile. Basically, we're going to take away the DevOps and the back-end part of it so you can just focus on the front-end native code and not have to worry about thinking about your database and all that stuff. Abstracting it away via our SDKdks yeah and i mean i've used a product before but just like to be clear for everyone else who's listening could you just give the quick explanation of what it actually became yeah yeah so parse is a platform that helps you make mobile applications much much faster we estimate roughly 10x faster and so normally if you're making a mobile app, you'd have to write all of the code, like the native client interface on the phone that the person would play with. But then you'd have to think about how does that app talk to some server in Virginia, and then what does it send, and then where's that data going, how am I querying it like how am i what happens if that server goes down so parse took care of that whole second part of this of the stack so that you just did the client stuff you make a like a pretty native ui um we didn't believe much in the at the time in sort of the like uh html5 approach which now is working better, but like the sort of phone gap type of thing, like we, we belay, we, we believed that a native apps at the time were like definitely superior in experience. Um, and so we just tried to like abstract away like all basically like the really hard, like kind of like 80% of stuff that people shouldn't have to know how to do them in order to make apps. And had you guys decided that like you wanted to go through YC again? Oh yeah. We, I, I talked to Paul almost immediately. On leaving script. Yeah. And I was like, yeah, me, me and James have to have these ideas. We're not sure exactly which one we're going to do. And Paul's like, all right, well, let's, let's, let's do this again. Really? So, okay. So you applied like kind of blind? Like there was no product still? Well, we agreed with Paul that we would focus on a company called PintPay, which was the subscription billing service. Back then billing and like payments companies were super hot. Like WePay just raised a bunch of money. Stripe was famously doing really well. But we definitely never wanted to compete with Stripe. So we Stripe was famously doing really well but we definitely never wanted to compete with Stripe so we were looking for other angles inside of payments you could do things like anti-fraud type stuff on payments so basically another idea was funded through YC and then you just changed it and you brought people on in the meantime that actually happens a surprising amount of the time yeah and so by the end of the summer you your your Heroku your Heroku for mobile Yeah, or we I later switched to AWS for mobile But basically like an AWS tailored for developers of mobile applications Okay, and so why did you want to do it a second time? YC oh, I mean Well, okay first off the first time we would never have made it without YC. And that's likely true the second time as well. Again, it's largely for the same reasons as the first time. I still don't think I know anything about startups. The more and more I do this, the more and more I'm convinced how little I know. like how little I know. And so like having that sort of, having that like community of people, like who are highly motivated, having my first customers there right there in the batch where I could say, Hey, like, like you're making a mobile app, use this. Like that's really, really helpful because then you suddenly get feedback. And then every, every dinner, every week you go to them and say, Hey, I launched this new stuff, check this out. And then, you know, we'd bring our laptops and show what we're doing. And then like half the time it was stupid. And then people told us that we, and then we stopped. And then the other half, they're like, well, why not like expand on this that way? And we're like, Oh, because that's the problem you're having in mobile. It's not that. How did you start getting customers afterward? Because it makes sense, like when you're surrounded by startups, you can just grab a ton of people. And I found Parse by going to hackathons because people are using it all the time. But how did you get people who would pay for it? Yeah. So we didn't have pricing for actually quite a while. It was a free service. We didn't know how to do pricing properly back then. And so we were mostly focused on, can we get, are we making something that's making a few people really happy? So we would talk to the developers who had signed up and who started using our beta, which we started off just basically sending data to the cloud, to S3, say. to like S3 say. And by talking to the developers and seeing like, do we have a product where people are really disappointed if we just like went away? Which I think is a really good test. If you can't find some niche that is absolutely like fanatic about your product, then you likely don't have strong product market fit. And most of the times that I've failed in startups was basically trying to push growth before I had product market fit. And so we found this core segment of developers who really wanted to make native apps much, much faster, ranging from agencies who were making apps for everyone from Green Bay Packers to the Travel Channel and Weather Channel and Cadillac, who actually all ended up using Parse. But we found people who really cared about this. This makes my life much, much better. And then we actually talked to them and we used their feedback to kind of make the product better in the ways that it should be better. And we actually moved really fast. All four of us were coding. better in the ways that it should be better. We actually moved really fast. All four of us were coding. And so we worked and we kept launching features constantly. And we got the Parse.com name thanks to Greg, the CTO of Stripe. Because I was over at their office and I asked them, what was your guy's second choice? Because like Stripe's an awesome name. And they're like, well, if Stripe didn't work, we're going to be Parse. I was like, that's available? And they just gave it to you for 10 bucks or something? They didn't own it. So they had written a script to email all the owners of like one word, uh, English, uh, one syllable, uh, domains like Stripe, Parse, uh, things like that. Um, and ask them like, Hey, we're, you know, a couple of people working on a startup, you know, are you interested in selling? You know, most never replied, but like Parse and Stripe owners did. Uh, and so I, I won't say how much Stripe cost, um, but,, but Parse was only 15K, Parse.com. That's not bad. Yeah. All things considered. And so going through YC the second time, like, what became valuable to you? I assume it was different than the, well, first of all, it was, like, way more people, right, in summer 11, right? But what was valuable the second time? Well, again, like, having, like, having like customers or like or the actual users like inside of the batch where i could like talk to them uh having that community because it actually gets quite lonely when you're just sitting there like coding like you know 16 hours a day or like like even if you're with like the same three people every day like it's nice to have that community of other people who are doing the same thing um the partner smacked us around a bit like no no you guys like are going the wrong way. And they were almost always right. And so we got a lot of good, like, it kept us honest about shipping every week, like shipping new stuff, not being embarrassed to ship too early, which is like really, really common, especially amongst developers who just want to keep coding instead of shipping. And so the partner's advice was priceless. And then at Demo Day, fundraising was a fat was next easier. I can't imagine the fundraising minus the YC Demo Day. We were wildly oversubscribed, but we only took 1.5. We stopped there for our seed round. And we really were able to get some of the best investors and some of the most famous Valley-type people. And it was really awesome. Yeah, and then it was like two years, and then Facebook acquired you guys? Yeah. Something like that? Yeah. So we started Parse in 2011. Facebook acquired the company in 2013. We'd actually had M&A discussions with several other companies along the way, like in 2012 and early 2013. But we actually raised our Series A like right after Dental Day. We basically went and started to raise our A because we actually thought we already had enough traction to start doing that. And it actually was a fairly quick process. We raised $5.5 million from Ignition. So in total, we raised $7 million. That just happened. And then we started hiring, and we were able to recruit some just amazing developers. A lot of people off the Google search team, for instance. A lot of developers were passionate about the problem and liked working on the tools that solved their own problems. So that was helpful. And being such a developer-focused brand also helped us. And YC was great for that. Being able to post, hey, we're hiring on Hacker News back then. I mean, because that's always a question I wonder, right? Because people are looking for those jobs, but you guys are also just looking to find people. So what were the effective strategies for finding developers to come work on parse you just made a cool product or or what well we often we would talk to a lot of our actual users like i mean there were some amazing like engineers who were like using parse and so even if we couldn't hire them we could talk to like their friends um but also um once we kind of got like a couple amazing hires out of the Google search team, we just kept asking every, we asked every single hire, like, who's the best person you've worked with? Like, who would you co-found a company with? And then we would just go to that person. And then I'd ask the same question, like, to that person. And even if I couldn't get, like, that individual, I could, like, you just kind of kept moving down the tree. Yeah. I could like you just kept kind of kept moving down the tree Yeah, and so that actually worked really really well and we were able to hire Like a lot of like friends or people we'd worked with previously So I think I think Kevin had worked with like several of the Google folks previously And so like they already knew and trusted kind of like like us and we already had we had kind of a good Friendly group that wasn't all just strangers. But eventually we ended up hiring everyone from like, we hired, some of our best people were actually users of Parse. The guy who ran all our community and such was actually making Parse apps. He had just graduated. So that was actually another great strategy. Hacker News jobs post was a really good one. And I guess that alone actually worked really, really well. And so now Parse is like shut down, right? It is, yeah. So just the other day, I think the end of January, Facebook finally. So Facebook open sourced the entire project. And now there are actually little companies that provide parse hosting. Oh, man. Really? Yeah. It's AWS for parse? Yeah. Well, because there's actually very little profitable businesses. All those folks who host WordPress for businesses, because WordPress is an open source project, now Parse is too. So there are people who just took over the hosting part of it. But the Parse team, to their credit, they kept building and working and adding features to the open source project. It's really, really good. So there's a lot of people who switched over who like we actually helped everyone migrate over from like from using like our servers over to like the open source project and like how to do that. The company did an amazing job with that. I think it was one of the best shutdowns of a company that I've seen. So often users are really angry and like but this was a really graceful, over a year notice that we were going to be shut down. Open source did, like migration tools. Too many startups end up just kind of closing. Oh, for sure. Yeah, it's happened. Do you think there's another parse coming down the pipeline? Someone's going to try it again? Well, Firebase did, right? So they were actually in our batch. They were a different company at the time. They were doing basically chat for every website. So you know how a website, like how Twitch has a chat little box? They were trying to do that for everyone. And they ended up pivoting later into doing basically parse again. And then Google bought them. So Google has their own parse, and then Google bought them. So, so Google, Google has their own parse and then Facebook had one. Um, okay. All right. Uh, so, so you can use Firebase, I guess, or parse. Firebase is great actually. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and so, okay. So you didn't go to Facebook, right? Okay. So what happens after parse? What do you do? Yeah. So I was like fairly burned out after I had no break between script and parse. Like literally it was like the next day I just started working again. So after, after many, many years, I guess, um, I, I, I, I'd always wanted to travel. I'd never done so. Um, and so I've spent about two years traveling, uh, backpack South America without a computer, which was great. What was that like? Yeah. And lived in Europe for a while, did a lot of speaking at conferences, that sort of thing. And I tried to learn more about the international startup scene. It feels like every city internationally, or a lot lot of them think like, how do we build the Silicon Valley of South America? Or how do we build the Silicon Valley of Peru? And it's like, that's not really the right approach, I don't think. They'd be better off focusing on being really friendly to one niche. We're going to be really friendly to Bitcoin people. We're going to make the banks be friendly to Bitcoin startups and like people, you might get more people going there and not dealing with all like this, all the difficulty that say like drones have here, like with all the regulations. So you could see like a drone valley and like a Bitcoin valley. I mean, Mark Andreessen has been. Stop. No, I completely agree with you though. Right? Like there's no reason why like, you know, all the pharmaceutical startups couldn't be in Germany or something. And so what did you learn from like, so you're speaking at all these conferences and stuff and you eventually stopped doing all that speaking. Right. Did you pick anything up along the way? Yeah. The number one question that I got was how do we raise money? How did you do that? how do we raise money? How did you do that? And it's really unfortunate because much like that, like the angel ecosystem that had to build in Silicon Valley, it took a long time. Back in even 06, there were not that many investors and terms were not good. I mean, nowadays, the typical seed round out of YC is higher than the Series A post money that Sequoia did in Dropbox and in Airbnb. So you have to envision like this client was completely different. Like there was not this like flood of capital chasing like every good startup. So that's kind of how it feels in most international areas. So what do you tell people? Come out here? What I was telling folks, yeah, I mean, I said, if you can, like raising out in the valley is, I mean, like, for instance, like Algolia was in Paris the same time I was there and they ended up moving here. Front App from Paris also moved here, where Front App I'm an investor in. And so the honest truth is like, I mean, I still think living and doing a startup here is very beneficial. I mean, it has certain downsides. It's very expensive here. But in terms of fundraising, that certainly helps. Also, investors are largely averse to like non Delaware C-Corps, which a lot of these companies outside of the u.s are like for instance i as an investor now in like you know over 60 or 70 companies um i don't understand like the legal ramifications of investing in like a company in like you know south america so you basically just avoid them well it just it would be a large legal headache to think about, to go have lawyers review this and see. Because, yeah, so with the Delaware C Corp stuff, you already have that figured out. So I actually just encourage folks to apply to Y Combinator. Or if they can't get into YC, apply to 500 Startups, whatever. But these programs are so perfect for people internationally. And I love what Stripe is doing with Atlas, like helping people. They're letting anyone be an entrepreneur like around the world. That is such an awesome, ambitious goal in solving that problem. So I think things have gotten much, much better than back when I was like, back in like when I was hearing that in 2014. Largely due to the efforts like that. And YC does a really good job of taking, there's a great company called Razorpay that I'm an investor in, that's kind of like Stripe for India. And YC helped them with the whole transition. It's super valuable. And so that's probably a good transition. So you said like 60 angel investments at this point. Do you have a particular strategy, an area you're focusing on? How's it going? Yeah. So I've been, so far I've invested in like Cruise, which just sold a GM, Gusto, LendUp, Checkr, Optimizely, Reddit, things like that. For me, in the early stage investing, I really, the first thing I'll look for at least is like, is there a large market? Because like without a market, it's really hard to be successful, even if you build a great product. And so is there a large market? And are these founders like a really relentless team that is determined or like I actually have this joke question I'll sometimes like kind of I don't actually ask founders this but like I'm like hey you know there's this conference and like you know like in like the UAE and someone just dropped out do you want to go give a talk it'll it'll it'll take you a week what you did yeah but I guess it'll take you a week. It's like what you did. It'll take you a week. They were kind of like the conferences that I was actually going to. I guess you weren't a founder at the time, but still. No, yeah. But often if founders are willing to take long distractions and doing things that are not relevant to their companies, that's a bad sign. And so you kind of learn to identify the folks who are relentless. What are other signals you see in people? I actually like solo founders. I know that's an unconventional thing in the Valley, but Drew was initially a solo founder with Dropbox, and a lot of other great companies were as well, or had one founder who really drove the project through. So I think people who are willing to go through it solo, it's already hard enough. People who can persevere for like a year or longer by themselves. I kind of really admire that. You can, you can kind of, I mean, references in some sense, like, you know, like if you ask people like, you know, who are the best people you ever worked with and they name someone, that's probably someone who's pretty good. As a technical person, do you vet the product, like the tech side of it at all? Yes, but I kind of believe, and I'm stealing a lot of this from Mark Andrewson, but that a really strong team in a really great market will eventually build the right product. And they'll figure it out. Because the market will drag the right product out of them, whether it's kicking and screaming. Like Docker came out of .cloud. There's lots of things. Twitch came out of Justin.tv. Justin.tv actually had this one vertical of gaming that was really growing. And they actually ditched the rest of it and just did the gaming vertical and so often like good markets will actually good growing markets will actually eventually steer you in the right direction so as an investor have you been burned yet I mean you've only been doing it for a couple years, right? Are there any like hard lessons you've had to learn? I think one good thing, well, I think people complain about valuations every single year. I've heard this since 2005. I remember when Optimizely's seed round was at four and people were like, that's so expensive. I'm never going to pay that. Like, you know, now it's probably a multi-billion dollar company. So I don't listen to pay that. Like, you know, now it's probably a multi-billion dollar company. So I don't listen to that anymore. I think a lot of the best deals can feel expensive. As Gary Tan recently said, you kind of, investors make their money basically on being, on being in the deal everyone wants to be in or being in the deal nobody wants to be in. And I think that's largely true. Like if you look at like, say, Dropbox and Airbnb, they took like over a year to go from demo day to their series A. So you don't have to actually rush into things at demo day. There's a lot of room in the post seed world where you can kind of invest, like maybe at a slightly higher valuation, but like before the series A. And so I've done a lot of that as well. And how are you finding those deals? They're either, often they're products I use or often they're things that actually solve problems that I had. Like in terms of areas I focus on, I guess I should mention a lot of B2B and like enterprise, a lot of autonomous vehicle tech, much like cruise, and a lot in marketplaces. I'm still bullish on... I don't think that there are enough marketplaces for all the different verticals yet. Like, for example? Okay, I'm an investor in Quartzy, which is a great startup, just did their Series B. And they are bringing for life science laboratories, like at universities or say at Genentech, they're fixing the whole inventory system problem because most folks just have either a chalkboard with writing down what they have or whatever, or some paper binder. So they are uniting the life science labs with the suppliers. And that's very valuable. And much like Airbnb, like a lot of people said, why do we need Airbnb? We already have Craigslist. But often these experiences are much better when they're custom tailored. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was Chris Dixon who made that graphic a while ago of breaking Craigslist out into all these billion dollar companies, something like that. Yeah, no, I think it's true. There's so many companies that are just like, we see it with YC. And Jared actually wrote a post about it last year, the startup zeitgeist, all the trends. People often don't pay attention to the unsexy, but giant markets. Yeah. And those are often like the most interesting ones in terms of like investments. And so a lot of my investments didn't seem sexy at the time, but worked out. And so like where are the markets you think that like people, in addition to those marketplaces, like people ought to be paying attention to? Because right now there's a lot of noise around, you know, say, for example, like VR or machine learning, AI stuff. Do you think that those things are worth startups going for right now? Or are there other things that you think are good opportunities? Yeah. So I actually really like existing huge markets that are growing. This is not, not everyone agrees with this. Some people say, look for a small market and like expand it. Like, I think that's kind of, I think, I think in zero to one, Peter Thiel kind of talks about this, that, that certainly can work. But I think a lot of Dropbox is like a great example. A lot of famous investors, I won't name, passed on Dropbox at a $2 million valuation saying the space is too crowded. But when you see a huge market that's fragmented with lots of companies, many were public already doing the same kind of thing just badly. If you can make a 10x better product, you can really win. And there's room for lots of winners, right? Box is public. They started roughly in the same era. Dropbox is doing really, really well. I think they just hit a billion dollar run rate or something. And there's room for lots of winners in huge markets. And so I'm guilty of following trends and saying, oh, YouTube is hot. Let's do YouTube for X. Like, oh, it's Cruise for X. Don't do that. Yeah, don't do that. Because that's rarely how the best companies were formed. Like when Stripe started, everyone said, why another payments company? Everyone already has a payment system. But they made a 10X better product that developers loved. They found a niche of people who loved what they were doing. Developer friendly and they signed merchant IDs on the fly. That was huge. Dropbox had like the same kind of reaction. Airbnb, I mean, as Seibel posted, like, you know, all the famous investors passed on that, like, because they didn't really, well, they didn't necessarily understand the problem. Like, you know, why would I rent out the living room of my brownstone in Manhattan? I don't, you know. Do you think it is an education problem? Because that happens with YC a lot, right? Like there are people that are seemingly entering a crowded space, but in actuality, like they are going to be the winner, right? So if you are the founder of that company, how do you educate people if you do in fact need money from them? Like, what do you, is it, or is people if you do in fact need money from them? Or is it just about education? I think YC has actually done a really admirable job in just picking relentless individuals like the Airbnb team, which was like a team that just was never going to give up. And even when they're not sure about the market or idea, they'll bet on really amazing people who are relentless. And I think that's one of the genius parts of YC and why YC has worked out so well. I suspect nowadays, I think you kind of have to ship at least part of that 10x better product just because the application... Nowadays, I don't think I would even get into YC if I had flat right now. But because it's much harder to get into. There's just more applications now than there were back then. And so I think if you can show some traction or some product market fit in a large market, that's always good. But in terms, I mean, I just think investors are, I think a lot of investors are wrong on this. And I think a great way to find startup ideas is to look at the Inc. 500 magazine. And it shows the fastest growing startups in terms of revenue, say, year over year or over three years. And then just look at those markets. And then see if you have founder market fit in any of them. Do you know any of those markets really well? any of those markets really well. And then if you have a secret, as Peter Thiel would say, if you know something about, much like the way Drew knew that we can make a much better backup cloud storage type product than this. And it's ridiculous people are using USB drives for backing up stuff. And that's because all the products suck, even though there are public companies in this space. So he just sat down and built the 10X better product. So I really like looking at the software that you use every day and seeing which ones annoy you, like which ones make you like really cringe. And I always write those down because if you're using that, it means it's probably one of the better products or it's what people are forced to use. And if you can build the 10x better product uh people will switch totally and i think paying attention to market size makes a huge difference i'm i'm still shocked that there aren't more like not cruise lookalikes but self driving in general like personal transportation is so massive that like there's room for like 10 of them yeah sebastian through and recently, I think he was quoted saying basically roughly a self-driving like kind of like engineer type person is worth roughly like $10 million. Like in like an acquisition or like in like M&A. I mean, I mean, Cruise was 50 people and sold for a billion, but keep in mind GM stock price actually went up on the news. So like the market actually, I think, viewed this positively because GM wisely noted that they were going to either become a software and technology company or kind of become a dinosaur relic. Because I believe this is true of all companies. All companies will either become software companies or they're going to die. As an investor now, do you have just a fear of choosing the right idea if you were to do a startup again? Like, are you scared of doing one or would you want to? That's such a great question. And that's okay. Yes, absolutely. And I actually think repeat founders are actually a disadvantage in many ways because you feel this pressure to come up with some genius idea when usually the best startups are not a genius idea. They're not some brilliant flash in the pan. It's just doing something that, like Facebook, MySpace already existed. FriendStory had already existed. But Mark just really nailed it. He started with the colleges. He built something awesome that people loved. And so I think often just doing things better is like not a bad strategy um but as a second time founder i or a third time founder i feel a pressure to like it's like the sophomore slump that richard feinman talks about in physics where he wasn't allowed to work on small ideas anymore he had to work on some gigantic thing but all the best discoveries in physics came from like, kind of, hey, that doesn't seem right. Like, you know, it's kind of odd that Maxwell's equations say that like, you know, speed of light is always constant. So what do you do to like actively combat that in your brain and just the people around you as well? I think you have to, I almost want to say like, not, not work in secret, but like, I wouldn't even talk too much about my idea probably. Cause I, it sounds so stupid, but the best, I think the best companies do sound like kind of dumb. Um, and also being willing to experiment, uh, with lots of kind of dumb ideas and maybe focusing on markets where there already is a so-called winner. I think there's room for lots of winners in lots of markets. It's really tough too, because I know, I know tons of successful people that work on all these little side projects, but are embarrassed to put them out because they're just like stupid little toys. And like, you know, it would be, I don't know, inappropriate or just not cool for them to put out some like Chrome extension Yeah They just built for themselves and then this actually gets worse Then you kind of get tempted to like take the money people offer you because like whatever in fundraising you're like, okay I'll take a couple million dollars just to like fuzz a seed around but then you're suddenly almost stuck in whatever Market and product that you kind of picked and you've probably picked wrong Just like we did just like I did every time. So knowing that you've picked wrong, like you kind of get stuck and it's too awkward to tell your investors that you're changing and pivoting. And so I think second time founders raise money too fast. Like I'm not going to raise money until I have strong product market fit and I know what I'm doing. And a friend of mine who actually raised money too early was just lamenting how that probably killed his second company. Man. And what about those people who were successful and then decide that they want to like create a, like a lab where they have like seven startups to them to their own. Yeah. That's like really interesting, right? Like Max, Max Levchin's done really well with that. I can't Y That's like really interesting right like max max leptions done really well with that. I kid yelp come out of that Slide which he sold to Google Yeah, I think a firm and then there's some great ones that that models really worked out for him I feel like he's an outlier. Yes But I'm gonna come around the other labs I don't think I've seen be as successful like I think like why Combinator used to not like being called an incubator, because like, most incubators haven't really worked out that well, Max's aside. I think it's hard to really honestly focus on that many different ideas that are all in progress. I mean, landing pages are one thing. Because they're all the same template. You're modifying text effectively, like often. But like, yeah, building, having teams that are working on like six, seven different projects, it's hard to figure out that really strong product market fit, which is what most startups fail. Most startups fail because they'd never get strong product market fit. Agreed. Okay. So kind of like wrapping up, if you, as a multi-time founder, if you were to give some advice to someone who's starting their first company, what would you tell them in terms of like, don't spend time doing this, spend time doing that? This is to a first-time founder? Why don't we do both? So first time and second time or whatever. Everything that's not working on your product and finding product market fit is a waste of time like that's the only thing that you should be doing uh don't don't worry about fundraising don't worry about everything else uh if you the folks who do fundraise too early typically get into real trouble um because they never are able to get the product market fit um Really focus on finding that huge market. Go to that Inc. 5000 list. Find the fastest growing companies. Find a market that you know really, really well, better than anyone else. So have founder market fit. And make it a big one that's growing. And then just build a 10x. Focus on building a 10x better product in that space.