 I had a, there were a couple questions from the internet, but I figure we could just start with kind of what we were talking before about education in general. Sure. So as you're a dad now and you're thinking about education, having now, you know, been at Cooper Union, now on the board at Cooper Union, been at the Media Lab, and now kind of the shed interacts with that you know education and art in the kind of cultural way and that its value how do you think about higher education um for your your kids in 20 years yeah so yeah we have 16 years before my daughter is released from the american high school system into you you know, who knows what, uh, really. Um, and, um, I think that, um, there are, we talked about this a little bit earlier, but there it's basically 15 universities a year that go bankrupt in the United States. There's a lot of reasons for that, but one of them is that maybe it's just simply the model as they have constructed it and are sort of buttressing it to keep it exactly as it has been. Maybe that's no more appropriate for education than it is for many other things in our lives. It's arguably easier to change the sensibility of a city than of a university because cities people leave and universities the people who really determine the core sensibility of it are tenured which there's there are very good reasons for tenure and it arose under McCarthyism to protect free thought essentially which is great but if you if you look at the downstream effects of protecting free thought such that then only the people who got caught in that particular net are preserved and the question is what are the what are the what are the downstream effects for everybody else within that and how do you how do you search for that the bottom line is is that i think academic institution the bottom line is that i think academic institutions and cultural institutions have this thing in common which is that what they what they provide you with is a sense of continuity between you and some larger set of people and ideas. If you didn't have cultural institutions and you didn't have schools in the contemporary United States, there's not that many things that are accessible to most people. There's a lot of abandoned churches. We don't work in factories or offices the way we used to, so there's not the same sense of community there. So I think the role of these institutions, whether it's the Shed or Cooper Union or MIT or whatever. I think what they provide is some, the thing that they do is they force you to acknowledge that you are not an individual, that you exist in some broader context that hopefully you're helping to shape and hopefully is a positive context, right? I mean, it's not dissimilar to YC. We were talking about this before, but I think that that batch structure, even though they're so close together, it's like three months apart between the winter and the summer batch, but still you're like, I'm winter 17, you're summer 17 like we're in the same alumni cohort and that's awesome right but i'm still summer 17 and like i'm tight with people in that way i was thinking about it just yesterday because i you know i was thinking i was thinking wow you know like i have two friends who've never even met each other who just got MacArthur grants. And I have another friend who just released beautiful, beautiful work, like, uh, the, um, uh, Frank Lance who just did the, the paperclip game that is right now. Right. Oh, that's awesome. Um, uh, and, uh, some amazing work from Usman Haq. And, and i was just thinking what you know like i i it's not that it's not that i'm in all of their work uh at all it's their work um but all of their work is in me like i like like you know through my friendships and relationships with them you know that that is that's what makes me who i am i have i have no illusions of uh uh that that the ideas that i have or the capabilities that i have or the or the knowledge that i have comes from me it comes from it comes from being connected and embedded with an amazing group of people and is that through cooper union or it's through it's through everything i've had i've had a really really peripatetic journey uh in my life and so uh i it's possible that i've crossed through more industries and disciplines and so on than than on average we don't normally talk about this but i actually think folks would be interested in you giving a little bit of the back like connect the dots in the um yeah in the five minute version the the the usually in meetings that i'm in you know it's like if you know i had a meeting yesterday with uh the cisco hyperlocation crew and you know and we're talking about how to do indoor positioning systems and you know and i was and I was talking about signal attenuation through steel versus concrete and this and that. And at a certain point, the guy from Cisco said, you know, like, you know a lot about this. What did you study? And this is always the punchline. This is sculpture. I studied sculpture. And that's actually the only thing that I ever went to school for's sculpture. I studied sculpture. And that's actually the only thing that I ever went to school for was sculpture. And everything else are things that I have been sufficiently interested in, motivated by, and or capable of attracting and engaging with people who are brilliant in other disciplines. So I'm working on a project. This is the last project that I have at MIT that I can't exactly talk about what it is, but I'll just say it's a very large-scale artwork that's using CRISPR. And I know fuck all about how to get that done. I now know just a little bit. But what I do know is I know how to work with people who are really good at their craft and I know I know how to connect them and I know how to draw out their best work I think I would I would say that I would say that I'm good at drawing out the best work out of people is that an innate quality or is that something you've cultivated I don't know I think I think I I think at a certain point I became aware that that's one of the only things that I'm good at. Uh, and so now I, now I, I, now it's very deliberate, um, but I, but I think, I think, you know, I think it comes from, from really, uh, valuing what other people do, you know, like, uh, you know, I worked i worked for years with with uh with frank lance when we had a company called area code where we i mean we i can say like we legitimately pioneered some of the earliest uh examples and and and actual products etc in location-based games like you know when nobody knew what that meant meant, when you still had to pull cell site signals off of towers, when we had to negotiate with carriers for location data. We were doing all that. But the thing is that Frank was basically my favorite game designer. And I think it comes from really valuing that. And like, not like it's, you know, it's not trying to, there's a difference between managing people and actually drawing things out, you know, and I, and I, and I think, I think learning how to learning, how to learning what brilliant people, learning what brilliant people there's an art to getting brilliant people to surprise themselves and that is um that's what i that's what i try to do that's what i have tried to do in most all of my endeavors and is that because i mean i've worked on a handful of projects with people i think are absolutely brilliant amazing and more often than not it's because i'm like hey i i have this particular skill set you have this particular skill set i think you're amazing yeah and you know part of like the the sales process or the meeting it's like i'm just kind of fawning over you yeah it's like yeah this is super cool and i can't do it yeah um what did you provide in that relationship? Because I think certain people who feel like they can spot talented people also feel a little inadequate and a little like an imposter and they don't know how to add value. Yeah. That's a good question. I think there's a couple things that I bring to it. One is I usually bring the beginning of an idea or often I bring the beginning of an idea uh or often i bring the beginning of an idea um so you know for example this this project i can't describe uh um is uh you know i had i had an idea that i couldn't even begin to articulate and i brought that to a pretty hardcore computational biologist that I know and she turned it into a much richer idea but it was also beyond her ability to do it. But then it kind of snowballs, right? Then it's me and her and we go and find the floral geneticist who can really pull it off yeah and then so that's part of it is is you kind of snowball like you can you kind of like you find the person who can add that much to it and then the person who can add that much and then so each time you meet somebody you're bigger and it's richer and I think the other thing that that I've been good at is that i can i'm very good i think at demonstrating the value of whatever it is we're doing to uh somebody who has some money to pay for it yeah just bottom line um and that you know i think i think people who are really really good at whatever they do are often not in a good position to be able to do that because it requires um a level a certain level of detachment from what you care about to be able to look at it from somebody else's point of view uh and to be able to tell a story about it that isn't the story that you tell yourself necessarily it's a true story it's isn't the story that you tell yourself necessarily. It's a true story, it's just not the story that you tell yourself. And in my travels, among other things, I spent eight years in advertising and I learned a lot about how to tell a story. And I learned a lot about how ideas can provide value, basically. So now, did you fundraise for Area Code? No, Frank and I just bootstrapped. We totally did that. It was just two dudes in a room with some savings. And we were anomalous. I must have been, I guess I was like 35. Frank was probably maybe 38 or so, right? Like, you know, so like totally anomalous. But it meant that we had some savings, you know, we had the savings that mid-30s people might have. So we were able to kind of like deal with it. Well, because the question I was wondering is if you had raised on the entrepreneurial side, VC standard, versus raising at MIT, are you involved at the Shed now fundraising? I am. Okay. I am. How does the story differ when you're trying to pitch a different product? People might argue with this, and I don't even know if I believe what I'm saying. But I think probably I would say that the essential story that you have to tell when you're fundraising is a story of scale. Right? Like because the premise of fundraising is that the money is going to scale. And that means something else has to scale to produce that scale. And so that's just the bottom line. This is that you're telling a story of growth. And the reason that Area Code grew, and we grew to roughly 40 people by the time it was acquired in 2011. The reason it was able to grow is that we weren't trying to. We were just trying to do the best work we could do and we would just grow as we had to and if we'd had to think about growth from the very beginning man we would never have done anything we did you know we would you know we would have bet it all on on this idea that we had in 2004 that we we went and talked to uh to the nintendo corporation we had this idea for pokemon we probably would have bet it all on that. And what a mistake that would have been. Yeah, right. Of course. What ended up being the big success of Area Code? Area Code, so in terms of the things that we did, there were a lot of little successes. Okay. Area Code was this very unusual beast. And they're very, I don't, I don't think there's been many like it before or after, which is that normally if you want to make money in games, if you even want to make a living in games, you say like, I'm going to build a shop that's optimized for, you know, AAA console development, you know, which has nothing to do with the shop that you would build if you were doing iOS development, whatever. Because the level of engineering and expertise, et cetera, is so intense for existing cloud networks. If you think back to when we started 2004 everything was just fucked up like like like it was like it was like the very end of um of like flash based casual games right like that was like those were sort of tailing off and and the console industry was sort of didn't know what it was doing it couldn't quite figure out what the next big move was and mobile just didn't exist yet in the united states and and so um it meant that what we would we weren't a game development shop yeah we were a game design shop and that is insane um because what we would do is we would just we would pick up um technologies or ideas that would fall off the back of different trucks and we would hold it up and we'd say like what what does this mean for play like what you know okay so you know what is you know so cell site sector location like that means you know that you're within like three blocks of this tower. Like what kind of a game would you build for that? Which is totally different when in 2006, maybe I think we got in the States our first phones that had a GPS chip in them. There was only one. It was a Boost Mobile. It was just a terrible handset. And we had to, you know, we were like getting J2ME. It was, oh God, it was so difficult and so awful. It was so difficult just to get the handsets because the idea that like, you know, we needed like 20, you know, for testing. The idea that there would be 20 handsets in lower Manhattan, you know, that people would buy that had GPS ships. Like we would have to wait a week for new shipments it was like it's just so we would just every new thing that happened yeah we'd be like what could you do with that what could you do with that what could you do with that and the reason that that's insane from a business perspective is that the efficiencies in that are exactly zero right you it's like it's it's like, it's like, it's like, basically you work really, really hard to solve all of these problems, technology problems, design pattern problems, all the problems of making essentially the first game where you're running through the streets, tracking your location. And then, and then we're like, now let's, now let's do a game about synchronous watching with tv and you know start again we just just throw it all out right because there was no business to build on there so we were like okay what's the next thing what's the next thing what's the next thing so the success of area code in retrospect is that we just we would just arrive everything that arrived we met it and towards the towards the end of it um uh the things that arrived started to scale and the two things that arrived uh five years into our uh into our project like like after five years of really kind of just like wow is it this is it this is it this five years in uh ios arrived and we were like oh we'll make an ios game and and then and then facebook games start to happen just really just just started to happen and we we built one that was insanely successful by early facebook standards like like we're basically everybody that we knew on Facebook was playing this game it's called parking wars it was a game about parking your car but it was brilliant like it came it came out of Frank's head it was it was it's actually one of the it's actually one of the the most beautiful games that we made there and and one of the most beautiful games that we made there and one of the most successful. So the sort of accidental success of Ericode is that because we met everything when it was new, when two new things had unimaginable scale or unprecedented scale that they were unlocking, we became experts at launching into those unknown spaces. And so that was, at that moment in 2011, that was very valuable to a lot of different companies who hadn't been trying to get into those new spaces because they're game development shops. What they're trying to do is just optimize for what they know. Yeah. Are you tapped into the gaming space right now not not certainly not in uh as an industry okay um well i'm just curious what you what your thoughts on basically the new technologies right yeah people seem to be bullish about vr yeah what do you think i think that there will be some great games in VR. I haven't seen one yet. I think that, broadly speaking, everything that I'm seeing in VR games is basically done by people who made console games and where their essential mode is thinking in console games if you think about how long it took cinema to stop just putting people on a stage and filming it you know to realize that you could cut you know right like i mean really it's that's true yeah it took it took a long time right and then when and then when they did the first cuts you people were like wait a minute like i don't even understand yeah what the fuck i was looking at a train and now i'm looking at a person you put some text and and that moment hasn't happened yet no which is which is fine it's it's very early and you know but that person or that company I don't think has emerged yet and I don't instinctively and from my experience I don't think that that person is going to come from one of the big triple A studios because they're going to have to be thinking in a different way. You know, they just, there's no, I don't think there's anything to be gained in looking at VR as a wraparound console, right? Well, when you, yeah, I mean, you just think about how quickly the tech, the technology outpaces the education. Right. So, you know, I went to NYU and I was like in the English program. So you're doing all this creative writing. Not at any point was there a course offered on how to write for binge TV. Right. Like, and now it's like a whole industry. Right, right, right. Exactly. And I don't even know if any film school has something like that right now. Right. And so how do you write a narrative for VR? Right. Yeah, I mean, well, also, you know, games aren't narrative vehicles in general, right? I mean, there's a whole very nerdy set of ideas around games and narratology which we're not going to get into but um uh but um what um i if i if i think about it actually having had a minute to reflect on it i can't remember the name of it but somebody did a game where you it this was just it was just some independent developer it was a game where it's for multiple players and one person is trying to defuse a bomb and they're and they're looking at that in vr and they're trying to do that in vr and everybody else has the plans and they're trying to communicate to the person who is trapped in a helmet basically right and so the you know the game keep talking and nobody explodes uh that's one of them no that's a different one actually that's a new one um uh but but uh yeah that's that's actually i think a modern instantiation of uh of something that was about three three years ago okay and it was very it was very raw it was very rough but but it was like it was like right like maybe what the the materiality of the medium of vr should include the fact that you're wearing a fucking helmet right like like you know and you're in a room with other people right like like maybe that's not like like maybe that's not something to write off like yeah like maybe that is maybe off. Maybe that is one of the essential aspects to play with. The fact that you can see things that other people can't see and they can see things that you can't see. One of the research assistants at the Media Lab is Greg Bornstein, who's now a proper game developer at Riot. And he did some early experiments around, he did a game called Case in Mali that was like the very first, it was like very early Oculus. that was like the very first, it was like very early Oculus. And it was like one person with an Oculus, one person with a mobile phone out in the world, and they have an audio signal between them. But the person in the rift can get some access to some information about the streets and vice versa. And they're basically trying to negotiate the fact that they are separated. It's an explicit reference to William Gibson's early Neuromancer in which Gibson was very interested in this idea that when you were in cyberspace you weren't somewhere else right and and and that a lot of things would be happening there and that there would be some interplay between them they're not the same thing um and the fact that they are so different is maybe part of what makes it so interesting right you know and so so I think there's – I mean, that's just one example of the ways to think about VR and play in a way that's not porting conventional modes of interaction yeah exactly because then you know you you spent all this time thinking about games thinking about new technology thinking about the future and then an acquisition happens yeah and then you somehow end up at the media lab yeah right yeah and so how did that what transpired to make that transition happen yeah and then how did being at the media lab affect how you think about building products yeah Yeah, that's a good question. I mean, the answer to how the transition to the Media Lab happened is super dull, which is that they asked me to apply, and I applied, and then they asked me to come, and I came. I wasn't looking for it, but also I knew some of the people who were there. I was close with Niri Oxman, who runs the material ecology group. And so that was sort of informed my sense of what the Media Lab might be. And they had a sense of me in part through the relationships that i had and um uh but it was interesting you know it was really interesting because then i arrived and you know they're very happy that some you know there's a new faculty member who's very different you know there's this you know i was there for four years and and one of the one of the most interesting things about hiring new faculty at the media lab is like the the primary criterion is is that they're a misfit right and it's like we're we're looking for um misfits who are thinking about how to ensure the heritability of CRISPR engineering. Right. Right. Like, because that's not a discipline, that's a person. Right. And, and that's actually what the media lab is looking to hire. They're, they're looking to hire disciplines that don't exist yet that are hiding inside the minds of a person. Right. You know? And, but so the problem is how do you, like, what is the what is the call for that person how do you scout and how do you even establish like what like what what anti-discipline are you like where does it go and so and so like the the best way to describe the way the searches go it's when i finally i didn't understand how i got there until we went to get other people which is that you're basically you you you know you kind of map out the spaces of of where all those 30 people are and then you just look for somebody who is equidistant from all of them oh right okay you know right like like you know it's like if they're if they're too close to this one we have one of those yeah you know and so um and so i think for for the media lab they they were really looking to try to figure out games and play um and that's what i had been doing with area code for uh for seven years um but it's also true that when I got there, they were like, was it like i didn't know that that's what we were doing in 2004 but it was research yeah 10 years ago yeah right and like the fact that it's new to you doesn't mean that it's new right like and and if i was interested in scaling that again i wouldn't try to do that there and so for me i came to the media lab to figure out you know they brought me there because i was you know somehow orthogonal to you know like you know the 30 different planes that are represented there um but i went there to figure out what was similarly orthogonal to everything I already knew and did. So I did some game work and brought in some pretty brilliant games folks. And we got some interesting work done on games. got some we got some interesting work done uh on games um but um i would say within within two years you know i had become just totally interested in uh in in microbiology and and that's what the next two years really looked like, was really sort of revisiting the ideas that were underneath area code for me, but not how would you express those ideas in terms of play, but how would you express those ideas in terms of biology. And I can't really say what, you know, it's not, there's no straight path. You know, I could construct a clever story. Right, yeah. But it was instinct and the instinct was for the idea that cities are not as simple as hardware and a bunch of users. That's just not what they are. And when we started AreaCode, what was underneath it was we're going to build software for cities. That's how we talked about it in 2004. I think now that's a powerfully banal idea, right? Like it's like a meaningfully banal thing to assert. But in 2004, we were like, what is software for cities? Like what would it mean to change your sense of the city? Like, and we were reading, we weren't reading, we had well read all the work from the situationists in the 50s and 60s. People, artists, primarily philosophers who were looking for strategies to get you to reimagine the cities that you were in, we didn't go into it to do Facebook games or any of that. Parking wars, yeah. I mean, we found something very interesting in that. But when we started, it was because cities felt like something like that at the time in 2004. It was like, well, that's something that technology is going to affect in 10 different ways. It's going to affect logistics. It's going to affect traffic. It's going to affect policing. How will it affect play? I was sort of digging underneath the work that we had done and trying to figure out what was important to me about it. If I were to reboot all these things and they didn't generate location-based games, what would they generate? And it turned out that they generated some investigations into the notion of cities as biological superorganisms that like you know to to to understand that um you know if you if you step all the way back and you just look it's like you know you look at termites you know they make mounds that look like this and you look at ants and they make colonies that look like this and you look at ants and they make colonies that look like this and you look at humans and they make these weird superstructures that look like this and why why you know like like what is it about um our you know essential trajectory that produces these things you know across you know many different cultures across long long swaths of history like like what is it and there's super interesting work by um jeffrey west at the santa fe institute um uh really studying um cities as a complexity problem um and really really beautiful work about how they scale and so on but um through a series of very weird tangents, which is what the Media Lab is good at, what I became interested in was I had a hobbyist's interest for a long time in uh in in the gut biome which is which is now weirdly popular right like it's like it's like now everybody talks about their gut biome but i i was you know like i talked about poop long before poop was like a congrats man an emoji right like uh um and um and and the role of your gut in terms of i i'm not so interested in it in terms of like your health and well-being although i do care and i have a two-year-old so now i think about it a lot i think about poop a lot um again um but um but what i'm interested in is just how it reshapes your notion of the world to know that you are a collective organism. There's all kinds of ways to represent this and it depends how you measure things. But one way or another, the majority of the DNA in you doesn't – it's not you. It's not from your parents. And much of it, we literally don't even have a name for it, right? Like where there are species that live inside us. Without them, we're dead. Without us, they'd have to find somewhere else to go. And that should change what we think of when we think of an individual. And I'd been thinking about that a lot. And this is all a very roundabout way, the only way I know. It's a roundabout way to get to the question of, if I have a gut biome that's distinct from your gut biome, does New York City have a gut biome that's different than the gut biome of Tokyo or Lagos or wherever? And if those gut biomes are different, why are they different? And what does it do? And what does it mean? And in that the gut biome that we have, you know, comes through the exchange of material, living material with the environment, you know, what does it mean to live in one city or another? You are effectively in exchange with that city. This is why you get sick when you travel right you know it's like it's why you eat the food that you know in some city that you've never been to you eat the food that everybody else there can eat with no problem and and it causes problem it's because it's because you are literally carrying your country your city of origin with you and uh and it's it's incompatible lightly incompatible with the city that you're in right so seemingly this can this project could have expanded you know like you are the hub maybe in the media lab or your cohort of people and you're like well i'm just gonna go everywhere in the world now and i'm gonna do tangible scientific research but instead you're like i'm gonna go back to new york where i from and I'm going to work at a cultural institute. I did. Yeah. Yeah. I, you know, I think it's exactly the point like we I for that project, which was around like the, you know, figuring out a discipline that is now a couple years later called urban metagenomics. You know, I amassed this amazing group of collaborators and some of them were like very, very hardcore biologists, like really, you know, I amassed this amazing group of collaborators and some of them were like very, very hardcore biologists, like really, you know, the top in their field. And some of them, uh, were like amazing artists like Chris Wobkin. Um, and we weren't trying to write a paper, you know, like we were trying to effectively publish a poem, you know, like the, we, what I was trying to communicate wasn't data it was an idea um and that um that is a very and that's and that's basically that's what that's what culture does right like you know basically um it it it transmits ideas rather than information. And in that distinction, it's not like they're in opposition, but culture is distinct from information. And the Media Lab is really, really good at information. And I had to figure out the right environment, um, for me, uh, in terms of how to be expressive in terms of culture. Um, and the, at the media lab, um, the way they, they would always, uh, we would always draw this diagram, you know, this sort of four quadrant uh of you know there's there's artists and there's designers and there's scientists and there's engineers and i don't know if it was ever explicitly stated but roughly if you brought less than three of those to the table as an individual you weren't you're not that interesting to the media lab right like i i'm overstating it maybe even misstating it but um but but that model of artists designers scientists and engineers and it took me a while to understand that my um what i what i was doing for myself and for the media lab was basically representing the artist and design piece of that half of that and bringing artists art and design i wasn't the only one but i was bringing art and design to a scientific and engineering environment it's not the massachusetts institute of culture it's you know it's you know it's like fundamentally right it's technology um but to bring art and design, uh, into that, uh, you know, with the deliberate, uh, goal of, uh, finding the, finding, finding out how to blur those boundaries or eliminate those boundaries. Um, I understand my role here at the shed and I, and I say it explicitly is basically bringing the science and engineering back. Um, you know, this is essentially, uh, an art it's, it's a, it's a cultural environment. Um, it's, it's not really design it's art. Um, but, uh, figuring out how science and engineering play a meaningful role, uh, and have meaningful forms of expression, uh, within, within culture, uh, is it's like, it's, it it's it's basically the inverse of what my job was at the media lab um uh it's it's nice to be home in new york of course yeah uh and also um uh the opportunity this is the first cultural center the shed the shed is the first cultural center to be at scale to be built in New York City since Lincoln Center. Okay? Wow. Which is when? 60s, I guess. It's embarrassing. I don't know. But yeah, it's at least 50 years ago. the opportunity to literally be part of that process of building the institution is too good to pass up. I, you know, I'm really, I mean, I'm, I'm good at the beginnings of stuff, right? Like, like, you know, and this is the beginning, you know, this is an instant, the building is still under construction. So part of it is that it's the opportunity to just – it's a new cultural institution for New York City. You'd be crazy to pass that up. director who prior to this had been the artistic director of the armory um and had done um a bunch of shows there that on paper are obviously bad ideas uh and then you would go and and they were just they were they were unbelievable shows you know like and does that mean curator effectively yeah yes yeah um yeah he's a yeah in we are for performance you would call it you they call it programming which means something different here oh okay i just want to know what the actual job yeah we have producers and programmers but they don't do what you think they do yeah yeah um i i didn't even realize that he was sort of like the secret uh uh brain behind some of my favorite things you know i i you know it was years ago it was actually four years ago uh uh just recently um a show that was the filmmaker adam curtis versus massive attack playing live an obviously terrible terrible idea um and it was it was so beautiful it was it was so extraordinary and it was um it was legitimately risky um and i think it is it's just so rare that i mean these days it's just so rare that anybody takes an authentic risk of any kind. But I think it's maybe even especially true in culture. I think especially large scale cultural institutions are weirdly risk averse to my mind these days. And so the opportunity to work with Alex and the opportunity to work at the very beginning of this thing, building is designed uh by dillard scafidio and renfro liz diller and also the rockwell group um liz diller uh is an old friend and uh and and one of my heroes um she's the architect who did the high line among other things right and the shed is right on the high line. And, you know, she came up with the idea of a building that moves, you know. And it's one thing to come up with that idea and kind of, like, sketch it and whatever. But, like, you know, like, they're actually, you know, like, we're building it. Like, we moved it about a month ago for the first time, and nobody got killed. Eight million pounds moved at about 12 miles an hour. Uh, and, uh, and nobody died. It's amazing. Yeah. It kind of looks like, like a concept car that actually made it to production. And you're like, it's cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. That's well said. I, I knew, and, and also, uh, I took a tour recently with some pretty hardcore folks from NASA, some Voyager engineers. And we were sitting up top looking at the motors that move the building. And one of them said, like, you know, this is ambitious. And it's like, if you're the systems integrator on the Voyager, and you're looking at a building and you and you call it ambitious that's an ambitious building right so it's an ambitious building um and it is tabula rasa yeah and it also has this very weird quality i didn't realize how strange it was until i started working here about four months ago, which is that it's an exhibition space of five stories, three enormous galleries, sort of like white box galleries, really large, and then a very large performance space, and then two small theaters. And Alex, when I first came in, in said you have to understand this is very unusual it's basically never done that you have a combination large scale performance space and exhibition space and i sort of didn't take it seriously because it just sounded but if you think about it yeah you you haven't been in a place like that like you're not going to go see opera at moma you're not going to go see an exhibition at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Those things, they're never going to happen. They couldn't happen even if they wanted them to happen because they are built around doing the thing that they do. So it took me a while to realize that it's that it really is unusual. Then I had to understand why you would even want that. And there's a couple different answers, but the most valuable answer, I think, is it's what allows us to, you don't start with a format. You start with an artist or you start with an idea. And then you figure out like, what does that become? And that will produce new forms. And I'm down for that. I think that is so necessary, so important, and so fucking difficult. Because that's the third part of it is that there's also a reason that nobody has built performance spaces with exhibition spaces. There's a reason no one made moving buildings well putting aside the fact that the building moves it's also like the best way to make it real like how few efficiencies you get in having an exhibition space with the performance spaces yeah think about what it's like to get a ticket to go see the you know roushenberg show at the moma yep um and trying to get a ticket to go see hamilton okay now think about one institution that has to accommodate both of those and what what is the ticketing software look like right like like all these like like just that like like and and that's that's like this big yeah you know and like um so there's a reason the analogy I always give is helicopters float in the air and planes float in the air, but nobody is like, wow, it'd be a better plane if it also had huge rotors on the top. It's like, no, they're different. They're different for a reason but our bet is that it's worth the the the struggle of uh of of of making um it's not just that the building moves it's not just that the building is weird it's that the notion of the institution yeah is weird it's like it's weirder than anybody knows can you put the the risks you want to take in tangible terms yeah yeah um um there's some yeah some might some i i wish i could tell you about the risks that we're going to take in the programming which which i really two years out now right it's a year and a half year and a half there's going to be a show um that is going to be um it's going to be extraordinary. We might have to do round two at that point. Yeah, I mean, yeah. It's a show where I can't imagine how it's actually, it's like if you're setting something up and you cannot imagine what it is actually going to be at the end, that's exciting and that's risky. And this is, it's very it's it's very beautiful risky work with uh an artist um that i can't reveal yet but um we are we're planting a flag um with the first show that says um this is this is the 21st century. Um, and it's not, um, like it, you know, it's, uh, it's not, it's not neutral, you know, it's not, uh, it, it might not be pretty, um, but it's going to be important and loud and rich. So there's a lot of risks in the programming. Some of it is riskier than others. But part of my role is there's a couple different parts of it. One of them that's very important to me is to start commissioning scientists to do work in the museum. And even the idea of commissioning a scientist is stupid and probably destined to failure, but maybe not. But figuring out how... So I'm working with a scientist, I also can't reveal, but one of my favorite living scientists to bring something to life in 2019. What we're aiming for in that is that this is a scientist who sees the world differently than you and I do because of their work. Everything they've done up until now is trying to describe that world in academic papers and instead we're going to bring it to life and that feels pretty risky to me but then putting curatorial stuff aside one of the things that we're going to do is eliminate any form of paper tickets. It's basically your ticket's going to be your phone. And by 2019, that's 98% of the United States will have smartphones. Even Obama phones are um, you won't be able to buy a non-smartphone in 2019. Um, uh, and so that's going to be your ticket and, um, it, uh, it allows, so there's a bunch of things that happen with that and where, and they're, they're basically in most ways, just plain better than waiting on a long line and there's a window. And you've been to Times Square, you see people with umbrellas in the snow waiting for it. And it's just like, you know what? It's 2019 and we say, fuck that. And we have no legacy infrastructure. We have no incentives to do any of that. So it's your phone. But now here's what's interesting. If all those people aren't online to buy their tickets or to pick up their tickets, where are they? And so now we have to think about that. And that's a problem that no institution has ever had before. and that no institution has ever had before, right? Like, you know, is if you don't have everybody who is waiting to see the show standing in the line, what are they doing? And we have some thoughts about it. You know, I only noticed it when I was looking at the flow numbers and I was like, whoa, 200 people an hour. What are we going to do with the 200 people who are waiting like that we don't have it so so so we're going to be doing some things that it it doesn't feel like a big idea to just have your ticket on your phone but it turns out you're changing the entire experience of guests and it actually changes how we program the spaces um so like you tweak that and all of these sort of a prioris that you have for cultural institutions go out the window with it yeah um so that's that's one of the big risky initiatives and then the other uh that i could talk about is um when i first got four months ago, the architects reviewed with me a bulkhead on the northeast corner with cables that were going to come out and a broadcast truck would come up. It has a satellite dish on the top and PBS or CNNnn or whatever they would be able to live televise the events that we do in the shed like they do sometimes with the met or whatever and i just you know i looked around i was like i was like guys the likelihood that in 2019 that truck is going to show up is basically zero right it's like it's it's not it's not absolute zero but it's very low yeah that those trucks are going to show up to broadcast a live signal from cables off of a satellite to television sets that people are sitting at who can't wait to see this i like i just meanwhile everyone could watch it from their phone on their like ticket device now right right right and so and so and so we so we killed it uh one of the reasons is because we the uh the architecture team had the insight to put in um an unprecedented amount of bandwidth for a cultural institution um it's it's uh it's the first time I've ever been part of any kind of architectural something where you look at it and you're like, yeah, that'll probably work for the next 50 years. That's probably enough. Where I actually can't figure out how to max it out like like like you know like like you know we could you know i guess we could mine bitcoin i don't even know like i don't even know what we can do with it all but but um but what we can do with that bandwidth is basically do digital broadcasts and that um the idea of doing live digital broadcasts not incidentally but like as the the core ethos of what we do at The Shed, where this thing that we're going to do in the first weekend, it's going to be enormous. But I don't know, maybe in total over one week, 20,000 people will pass through those doors. And it just doesn't sit right. It just doesn't work for me. And then you have whatever it is now, 3 or 4 billion addressable broadband connections out there in the world. We should be thinking about it less of a building and more like a beacon you know like this thing that emits a a live synchronizing signal to everybody around the world i don't want to i don't want to put it up on youtube i don't want to put it up on you know it's like it's not about the archive of it it's about that at 7 o'clock on Thursday, this thing is going to happen. And I'm sorry if that's 7 a.m. in Tokyo. Whatever. Wake up early because we're going to have to make it worth your while. Like we do for the World Cup. Because what is valuable isn't just the performance and the event what's valuable is that synchronizing signal yeah and that to come back to the very beginning of our conversation that i think is the the most important thing that cultural institutions can do now is to basically provide synchronizing signals is basically to say like you know right now like we're going to gather together and we're all going to be on the same fucking page for like for the next two hours we're on the same page like for the next two hours our attention is on this thing but i'm here with you right like and to and and to be able to provide that feeling of being uh with people at the same time with the same attention. It's very, very powerful. I think it's generally unexploited in technology in general, and it's definitely underexploited in culture. If you look at what technologies do and have done is they basically delaminate whatever it is that we like from its mode of transmission or expression, whatever. And if we didn't, if we didn't love that so much, it wouldn't have worked. Right. But it turns out we don't want to buy albums and we don't want to, you know, like we want, we want the stuff. Yeah. Okay. it's true we do but also we want to we want to feel um what it's like to be connected to in a in a in a kind of limbic way like in a like in a in a in a in a synchronized way and um, um, so, so we're, you know, it's, that's the, it's the premise of theater. It's one of the, one of the core ideas of theater, but the idea that we will be a, we'll be producing very, very high end, uh, live cultural events for the internet constantly um feels like well yeah that's that's probably what you would do in the 21st century but i don't know because nobody's ever done you know who knows no one's doing who knows right so we could talk about this infinitely about attention and like the separation of mind and body in our work yep um but you know we've been going for like almost an hour now. And so I just kind of wanted to wrap up with one question about you in particular. You've done so many interesting and seemingly different but connected things. 10 years from now, what are you working toward to make Kevin better? I hope 10 years from now, I'm actually still here at the shed um and that you know there were there were some things I liked okay about advertising when I worked in advertising for eight years there were a bunch of things I hated about but there was one thing that I really loved and I was so afraid to leave advertising because I loved this thing so much and this thing was I had no idea what I was going to do tomorrow right like you know you know you'd be working on like some breakfast cereal account this is like a real thing that happened you know it's like you're working on breakfast cereal and you're like there until eight o'clock at night because advertising is hard and and then you come in the next day and they're like no you know what actually you're on the f-22 fighter bomber and and it was like it's like wow like now i have to learn everything about fighter bombers and how people in congress spy them you know um and and i thought when I left advertising, I was going to give up on living a life in which every day I've got to figure out something new that we've never figured out before. And somehow that I think the projects and positions and even types of companies that have've been part of making, they all have that in common. And I think I sort of don't care what I'm doing in 10 years as long as I get to exercise that muscle. I think at a certain point I had to abandon the notion that I would ever have legitimate domain expertise in almost anything, really. capabilities uh between everything as everything is arriving all at once um that that turns out to be valuable in the world who which was surprising to me as an adult um uh it turns out to be valuable in the world and also it's like you know i feel like as long as you're doing something for the first time you're still young right and so like i just in 10 years i just want to feel young right so that's that's that's my long i think we should just close it right there all right thanks man yeah you