 Okay, hello everyone and welcome to Work at a Startup. This is the first time we've done this conference since 2012. So it's a pretty special day for us and I'm really excited to see that we had such an amazing turnout. In a moment I'm going to introduce our first keynote speaker, Justin Kahn. Justin is the founder of three YC companies. He is now running a company called Atrium, which you're going to hear about later this afternoon. But before that, he was the founder of Justin.tv, and he actually presented up here on this stage eight years ago, back when he was running Justin.tv. And he's going to tell you some really awesome stories from what happened back then and talk about why you should or should not work for a startup. So, please welcome Justin Kahn. Thank you, Jared, for giving away my talk. It's me, Justin Kahn. I am YC's remedial student. I had lost track, actually, of the number of times I'd been through YC until Jared reminded me. It's been three times, actually four at least. And some of those companies worked, some of them didn't. And my newest company, which went through YC in the last batch in winter 2018, is called Atrium. And one of my team members will be up to tell you about that later. But what I want to talk about today, and it was supposed to be a surprise twist, but no longer is, why you should, but also why you shouldn't join a startup. And I'm going to start with why you shouldn't join. Okay, there's a couple reasons. And my goal here is just to give you the most unfiltered, raw feelings that I have to help you make an informed decision. But there's lots of good reasons why you shouldn't join a startup. Number one, the management at startups generally really sucks. I wish I was joking, but no, it's true. I used to joke that there were YC companies. There were two kinds of YC companies. There were the rocket ships with bad management, and then there were the other companies with bad management. And as kind of a corollary to that, it is likely that if you join a startup, especially in early stage one, you won't necessarily get enough mentorship or direction on what you're doing unless you really actively force people to give it to you. Second reason, you are likely to not actually get rich joining a startup. It's statistically improbable that if you think you're going to join a startup and then be set for life, that is unlikely to happen. So that would not be a good reason to join. set for life that is unlikely to happen. So that would not be a good reason to join. I'm sorry I ever told you different. And then the third reason, which I think is a new reason in Silicon Valley actually, is Silicon Valley has matured in the last 10 years since Jared and I have kind of gotten here. One of the things that I think has changed is people, you know, originally when I got here, I think people just wanted to work on interesting shit. And it was a much smaller number of people. Now I think that there's a lot of people who come to Silicon Valley because it's a great career. And there's a great trajectory and there's stability. And if you want, like, those things, you should not join a startup. You know, I've noticed more and more people, even people I've recruited more recently, coming in and saying, what's the career pathing here? What's the five-year plan? And I'm like, we don't have five years of money. So if you want stability, I think you should go join Facebook. Maybe not today, but next. Next week, next week. Alright, alright, so now on to what you really came for, which is why you should join a startup. And I, when I was writing this in the parking lot five minutes ago, identified three reasons. Alright, number one, you will get access to jobs that you're completely unqualified for, and you might not be able to do. So my example actually comes from that very first workforce startup. Eight years ago, you know, I was on stage talking about Justin.TV, and we actually recruited someone from that, and his name was Guillaume. He was from France, programmer, and actually he came to work for a startup and got two offers from two different companies. One was Justin TV, and one was actually Scribd, Jared's company. And I sat down with Guillaume, I remember, in a coffee shop after work for a startup, and he said, oh, I have this offer from Scribd. And I said, what was it? He told me. I was like, I'll pay you $10,000 more right now to sign this instant. And so he accepted. Sorry, Jared. He accepted and he joined Justin TV. And within a year, he was running our entire Rails backend for a site that was like a top 100 site. And I think a top 10 to 20 Rails site at the time. It was like in 2010, so the bar was a lot lower. And that was a job he was like completely unqualified for and he would never have gotten the opportunity to do if he didn't join a startup where we didn't really have anyone else to do it. And he went on, actually, this is a pretty cool story. He went on, we spun out a company called SocialCam a couple years later. He went on to be the co-founder of that company as we spun it out at Justin.TV, went through YC, and got an even greater scale challenge when they scaled from 0 to 128 million users in two months. And so just the rate of learning for him was pretty incredible. And now he's a co-founder at a company called Triple Byte that does recruiting for YC companies and others. Okay, so that's number one. You are going to get access to jobs you are not qualified for. Number two is joining a startup is a really good gateway to starting your own startup, if that's a goal of yours. In the second work for a startup, we, in 2012, I came back with another company called Exec. And I recruited someone else, actually, someone really talented. His name was Finn Barr, and he was an engineer at Groupon at the time. And I think he really wanted to break into startups with the idea of eventually starting his own. And I think one of the things that's really important is to just put yourself in positions where you're around people who want to do the things that you want to do, or people who are like the person that you want to become. One of my co-founders of Twitch, his name is Emmett, always told me that, you know, you are the average of your five closest friends. And he wasn't talking about just me, he was talking about everybody in general. And I really think that's the case. So Finbar went on. He was, like, you know, working at Exec. That company didn't work out super good. But he ended up meeting a co-founder there and starting a startup, which was a horrible idea. It was a terrible idea. I told him not to do it at the time. But he ended up getting a start, right? He was, like, he became a founder. That didn like he became a founder, that didn't work out. He ended up joining YC for, I think, just over a year, and then started a new startup that just went through YC and is off to the races and doing super good. I won't give away that. It's called Shogun. You should check it out and probably work there. Okay, so starting your own startup, that's the second reason. The third thing is to maximize your, I should slow down. I is to maximize your, I should slow down, I still have a lot of time, sorry. The third thing is to maximize your own speed of learning. I think this is actually the most important reason why you should join a startup. And I have kind of two examples of people who did that working with me. And they are both the two co-founders of Cruise. And I think that they're cool examples because one is kind of maximizing learning on the way up and the other on the way down. And I'll explain what that means. So the first co-founder of Cruise, his name's Kyle Vogt. We recruited him at Justin.TV in the early days. He was an MIT student, and we had found him, and he was kind of this person that we thought we needed because he was a hardware hacker, and we thought we were going to build a hardware company. And so we convinced him to come out from MIT for his month-long break during January, and we bought him a one way ticket and we were like just work for a month and then we never bought him a ticket back and Kyle basically became our VP engineering and he became a co-founder actually in the VP engineering and Kyle's amazing hacker. He always has been. Very amazing tinkerer and one of those people with a can-do attitude. If you're like, hey, let's build this thing, he's going to go figure out how to build it. But he didn't know jack shit about scaling systems or building scalable system architectures. And so that was the job that was available available, though as soon as we stopped, we figured out that we should not build hardware. And so that's the job we kind of assigned him. And he had to figure it out really like on the fly. And so he ended up packing this live video system. There was nothing kind of, there was like no precedent, right? We basically built this scalable, dynamic live video system that he engineered and architected, mostly badly at first, actually. And it would go down all the time. We ended up, there was this one kind of funny story where, you know, we had no idea no idea about like we did no idea how to build reliable systems and so every time it would go down we would like call him which was like every like 36 to 48 hours and he so he could like never go on vacation well which is like not really acceptable to him so it was just like one time he was just like, I'm going, goodbye, basically. And we're like, no, what's going to happen if you're not around? He ends up, he went to Tahoe or something like that. We ended up, of course, like clockwork, after 36 hours, the site went down. And we were calling him on the phone like 10 times. It's a live video site, so if it doesn't work, it doesn't have any value, right? 10 times. It's a live video site, so if it doesn't work, it doesn't have any value, right? Like, just right then. So we started calling him, and he didn't pick up. Luckily, I left the address. We ended up having to order a pizza to go to his house to read a message to him, like a pizza delivery driver. Read the message, like, answer your phone, the website is down. So, like, that was, like, our concept of, like like a pager system at the time, right? So really figuring everything out, you know, one step at a time, kind of inventing everything from scratch. The end of the story is he eventually architected this live video system that by the time Twitch sold to Amazon in 2014 was the fourth largest bandwidth consumer in North America, 15 points of presence around the world, did 90 petabytes of data transfer a month. And so, you know, I mean, his rate of learning was incredible as a software architect, and obviously kind of went on and took a lot of that to Cruise, which is also an incredible story. The other co-founder of Cruise was my brother, Daniel, who met Kyle actually as a intern at Justin.TV when he was a college student. We recruited him. Not really recruited. It was more like nepotism. I'm sorry. I hope he's not watching right now. That's fucked up. That's fucked up to say. So no, he also had a crash course in startups over the next couple years. Didn't work for me for very long. But when he did work for me, he recruited these guys to the site. I remember Justin.TV, when we were doing, like, the kind of live streaming site, he recruited this unknown band. It was called the Jonas Brothers. And they ended up, like, crashing our site. I mean, they were part of the reason that Kyle hated his life. Ended up crashing the site over and over again. But the cool thing was he joined as this intern. He got to, like, you know, interact and kind of, like, make a deal with, like, what was basically, like, became the number one kind of teen band at the time in 2007. And then later on, you know, he joined me as a co-founder when I started this other company, Exec, in 2012. And the cool thing, you know, I mentioned, you know, Kyle's kind of the example of, like, how you might learn at a startup as the startup's growing and on the way up. I think Daniel's a perfect example of how you will also learn and maximize your learning if the startup is completely and horribly failing. Because learn and maximize your learning if the startup is completely and horribly failing because we in 2013 by the time we had worked on exec for a couple years we realized that the home cleaning business is not a great business I recommend you don't join a home cleaning startup and he we ended up trying to sell it and this is a great story this is it. And this is a great story. This is my last story. This is a great story. So we were trying to sell it. We ended up negotiating a deal with a company called Handy that's in the East Coast and against all odds has survived in this industry. And we negotiated the deal. And, like, it was taking forever. There was, like, tons of lawyers. It was dragging and dragging and dragging. And I was so burned out. I Like, it was taking forever. There was, like, tons of lawyers. It was dragging and dragging and dragging. And I was so burned out, I was just like, I'm going on vacation, Daniel. You have to deal with it. It's not a very responsible thing to do. And so he ended up having to be the one who closed this deal over the next, like, month while I was in Thailand. I mean, I was, like, kind of doing stuff on the phone, but he was mostly like running this deal for not a lot of money, you know, just a bit of stock from Handy. And he ended up like, it was like a horrible experience. He learned all about like negotiating, you know, from, and when you want to have leverage in a deal, when you, you know, when you should, like all the things, all the different minutiae of negotiating a deal. And he learned it on this very small, horrible deal, which we were mostly just trying to offload because we were so burned out, we wanted to get out of the business. Two years later, fast forward two years, he had become a co-founder of Cruise. Cruise had built an amazing technology team that was executing super well. And you guys know the end of the story. They ended up selling to GM for a billion dollars. And he applied. The cool thing, I think, is that Daniel applied all of those horrible lessons he learned from, like, trying to negotiate this shitty piddling deal for our company to his next company. And ended up, you know, they sold it for over a billion dollars. So you're going to learn something. Whether the company succeeds or fails, you'll probably walk away with something valuable. The last thing I'll say is that the way I think about it is, the way I think about growing and, like, your speed of learning, maximizing your speed of learning is from a quote that our YC partner, Paul Buhite, had generally said. I think he says it to every batch, which is that, you know, it's not your Y intercept, but it's your slope that's important. And so I think you want to, you know, the way I've always thought about it is, how do I figure out ways that I can put myself in the position to maximize my own personal rate of growth and rate of learning? And I suggest that you do the same, regardless of whether that's at a startup or not. All right, best of luck. Next up, wait, I'm supposed to introduce you. I'm sorry, I forgot. Next, we have YC president, Sam Altman. All right, Justin covered a lot of what I was going to talk about, so I'm going to have time for questions. That was awesome, though. So I want to talk about how to pick which startup to work at. The most important considerations you all already know. Picking a company you're excited about, people you're excited about, a role you're excited about, that's more important than the rest of the stuff I have to say, but that's also intuitive. And so I'm going to talk about the things that are not intuitive, or at least haven't been for me. And I want to just echo one thing that Justin said, because I think it's so important. Every job I've ever had, and probably every job I've ever had and probably every job Justin's ever had as well, I'll speak for myself at least, I've been wildly unqualified for. And doing that, I think, is like the number one secret to having a really great career. Like that's the way you have a super fast rate of personal growth. And I think the way careers go is you should put in the most of the effort at the beginning because it's this compound interest-like thing where the work you do now the learning you do now the improvement you make early in your career gets to pay off for all the rest so you may as well work hard and take a chance on a role that you feel unqualified for early and if you flame out you go try something different but my experience is when someone does a role they're unqualified for, it either goes way worse or way better than expectations. And a lot of the times it goes way better. And if you hold yourself back from doing this because you're afraid of not working out, which is totally understandable, sometimes it doesn't. I think you miss this opportunity to have the sort of most impactful career you can. And that is what's so cool about startups, is you can get jobs you are wildly unqualified for. So I want to talk about how to pick a startup. And I want to talk about this from the perspective of being an investor. Because I think what you're doing when you go to work at a startup is making one big investment. If you're really good, you are going to take way less cash comp you can than you could get at Google or Facebook, and you are going to be compensated for that by investing your time in the startup in return for equity. So people have different risk-reward trade-offs. You might want a later stage startup with its lower risk or return. You might want higher risk, higher return, a very early stage startup. But I think the right framework of this is to think about it like you're investing in a startup. And for me at least, learning to invest in startups was deeply counterintuitive. And I'm going to talk about eight things that I learned about how to evaluate startups for investment. This mostly applies to sort of the stage of startups you'll see here today. Number one, this is a Paul Buhite, another Paul Buhite-ism. It's more important that a startup have a small number of users that really love the product rather than a lot of users that really like the product. Most startups either have no one who cares at all or a lot of people who are kind of like, yeah, that's okay. Very rare to find a startup where people love the product so much they spontaneously tell their friends. But if you think about the really big companies today, Google, Facebook, you probably heard about it because someone was like, this is awesome, you gotta sign up. And people talk about product market fit, all this other stuff, I think it's sort of hard to evaluate. But one thing you can do is either talk to some users of the company, or ideally you are one yourself, or know some, and like, is this product so good that people are telling other people they've got to use it and that I think matters much more than the vanity metrics number of users current growth rate whatever that most startups throw around so if you only do one piece of diligence this is the one I would do number two trust in exponential growth and as a byproduct of that trusting momentum momentum is sort of this really important concept to startups. If things are feeling good, if it's growing, if people are loving the product, if good people are joining, that tends to keep going. And if that falters, it's very hard to get it back. So does the startup have a good sense of momentum, and is there some sort of exponential growth model? By the way, I've been investing in startups for like, I don't know, eight or ten years now. I still have not managed to get good at intuiting exponential growth in my head. So I have to do it in a spreadsheet every time. But I've learned to trust it. If a startup is growing exponentially and it's not fake, it's not like they're buying all the users or something, it tends to keep going. And making that leap of faith, because almost no one understands just how powerful exponential growth is, even if they say out loud they do, making the leap of faith and trusting that is super valuable. Related concept. This is the third one. The size of the market today matters almost not at all. It is the growth rate of the market and how big the market will be in 10 years. So I think the number one mistake investors make when they miss out on a really great opportunity is they look at the size of the market today. Now, they only care about how fast the startup is growing. They don't care about the size of the revenue today and why they can't make this same leap of faith for the market, I've never understood. But today and why they can't make this same leap of faith for the market, I've never understood. But if you make a really great decision on what startup to join, it will probably be a smallish market today that's growing really quickly. You know, I saw this morning on the way down here, this is like the 10-year anniversary of the iPhone app store. So 10 years ago, not very long, the size of the market for iPhone applications was zero dollars. And a lot of investors, you know, somewhat rationally, but obviously wrongly, said, all right, well, we're not investing in these iPhone apps because this is a small market. I also saw this morning the Uberdeck when they first raised money, and they said, you know, their TAM is like two billion dollars or something. And if you think about the world from a certain set of constraints, that was true. But it turns out that the market of people that want to move around cities easily grows quickly when you have a better product. So thinking about the growth rate of the market, not just the growth rate of the startup, super important if you're going to identify something really big. And a related concept to that is the biggest companies that we have been able to be a part of and I think the biggest companies in the technology industry as a whole happen when there's a technological platform shift. So for example, stick with the iPhone example, the iPhone app store launches in 2008. In a period of say 2009 to 2012, there were a lot of companies that you could never have started before and that all of a sudden you could. Uber is a good example, but there's other ones like Snapchat, which really just didn't quite make sense before mobile phones and apps. And so trying to identify these platform shifts, that's another place where I think you can find almost all of the big startups. Most people are wrong about this, so you have to learn to trust your own intuitions here. It's very hard to differentiate between real trends and fake trends. The technology journalists in particular seem easy to trick about this but honestly so is everybody and so if you read the news you're not going to find the answer here. If you talk to most people you're not going to find the answer here. But if you think hard and you really pay attention sometimes you can. The metric that I use to differentiate between a real trend and a fake trend is similar to loving a product. It's when is there a new platform that people are using many hours every day? So the iPhone comes out, not that many people buy it, but they use it all day. VR headsets come out, a lot of people buy it, but they never come off the shelf. So VR, by that metric, is not yet a real trend. And at the point where people start, you know, having their heads set on hours a day, that might be a good time to start a VR company. The fifth consideration. Is the company exciting? And here's why that's important. The hardest thing to get, especially right now in Silicon Valley, is a critical mass of talented people at one company. It's easy to get the first few employees. You can give them a ton of equity. Give them big job titles. but that stops to work. And then you get to employee 30, employee 300. Why are they still going to join rather than start their own startup, join a small startup, go to Google? And this ability to have an exciting enough mission to be able to concentrate talent, this is why I think it's easier to start a hard startup than an easy startup because people care. And if you don't have this, it's really hard. I have basically in my life tried, had to recruit a lot for two different startups. One was a company I started a long time ago that did social networking on iPhones and another was OpenAI. And in the first one, we could tell people like, hey, you know, like you should come do this, it's really cool, and it was kind of cool. In OpenAI we can say like, you know, if we don't do a good job, or if someone does not do a good job building AGI, like the world will very likely get destroyed, and we need you specifically to do this piece of it, and if you don't do that, it's really bad for the world and that is a really hard pitch to say no to And so a startup that has a reason why people need to join it is super powerful The sixth one is how is thinking about how impressed you are by the founders and the early employees at the startup So as a general observation, it is extremely powerful Whenever you can identify something in the world that is true and important and that most people don't believe. And in fact, I think this is one of the two major market inefficiencies that startups get to exploit. There exists a small number of founders in the world that are so good that they end up bending the world to their will. And they can do this without a lot of business experience. are so good that they end up bending the world to their will. And they can do this without a lot of business experience. And they are like hundreds of times more effective than people that aren't like this. And there are programmers that are, I know people hate the 10x engineer meme because it's so often used to justify being a jerk, but there are plenty of people who are 10 times as good as average programmers and also nice people. And in companies where you find a lot of these people concentrated in the early hires, this is a huge deal. And these startups consistently outperform. And the quality of the early people at a company, the quality of the founders is so determinant of success, and it has such a bigger impact than people like to believe or want to believe about the world that when you find this it is one of these secrets about the world that is critically important and that people try not to believe so I think that's a really great thing to look for the other the other big market inefficiency to look for is ideas that sound bad but are good so most ideas that sound bad are unfortunately bad, and you should try not to join those companies. But there exists a class, and this is where YC has made most of its money, of ideas that sound bad but are good. If an idea is good and sounds good, then the big companies will try to do it and usually out-compete you. But there's a really important difference between startups and big companies. If you have the same idea at a big company and you want to do it, you have to get your boss to say yes, your boss's boss to say yes, your boss's boss to say yes, and then Sundar to say yes, and then Larry Page to say yes. And in that chain of 20, one no kills the entire idea. And if the idea sounds bad, someone will, rationally so, say no. If you're a startup, you may also have 20 conversations. You may go up and down Sand Hill Road trying to convince someone to fund it. But you only need one yes. And the one yes, you get to go do it, even if it's 19 no's. It's very different than what has to happen in a big company. So one idea I often ask startups is can you tell me why this idea sounds bad to the big companies but actually is good? And then a final thing that I look at are what, this has been a long-standing YC metric, what are the smartest sort of recent college graduates excited about? In our experience now over more than, you know, 13 years that YC has been in business, that group of people consistently is three, four years ahead of what investors focus on. And that has been a model for us of identifying real trends before they happen. and that has been a model for us of identifying real trends before they happen. That group is not always right. There have been some big failures. But directionally speaking, young people, I think, have more time. They're more on the forefront of technology. They're less set in their ways, whatever it's for. That, you know, what those people are going into is an area that we have always looked at. So another question that's related to all of this is how to get good advice about what startup to join. And you have to choose the peers whose opinion you care about in your life very, very carefully. Most people will bring whatever biases they have about what a career should look like or what a safe choice is or what a good thing to work on is. They'll bring all that to the table. And most people have let bad processes in behind their firewall, and they will give you bad advice. And so trying to find a group of people that you can go to in your life whenever you have a big career decision that are kind of open-minded and intellectually rigorous thinkers and who care about the similar kinds of things that you care about, whatever that is, is a really valuable thing to do. I was lucky to find a handful of those people very early in my life. I still ping them on every big decision. And the advice that they give me, I think, is generally quite good and very different than what I'd get from most of my friends. So finding people who can give you good advice about what startup to join is really important. I was going to talk about how to think about equity at a startup, but I only have one minute left. So I will say this. You probably aren't getting enough. I think most startups are not nearly generous enough with employee equity. The difference, the amount of value that you create as an early employee versus a founder is not the 100x difference that you usually see reflected on a cap table. We try to get YC startups to be more generous with equity, and I think over time it's trending in that direction. But remember, startups need really talented people. Startups need people that could otherwise go work at Google and make a gigantic salary, and I think you should demand to be treated fairly for that. That was supposed to be five minutes, but there's the 25-second version. All right. Thank you very much. We are going to start with company presentations now. And thanks for coming today. Hi, I'm Jose. We're going to go alphabetically. The first company up is Armory. Hello, YC! Armory is here and we believe that software is the highest leverage way to improve humanity but how do you feel when you hear deploy to production how So, roll back. Or fire drill time. But don't worry. Armory is building a next generation deployment platform to help software teams ship better software faster. And we're looking for skilled individuals that want to grow together and learn from one another. And growing we have done tremendously. Last year, we were at $60,000 annual revenue. Today, we're at $1.3 million. There's a lot more to talk about. Find our booth. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, everyone. I'm John and at Astronis we are building small low-cost telecommunication satellites. Why are we doing this? Because four billion people in the world are not online right now. It is a huge problem. There are so many people out in the world who do not have the access to knowledge and education and all the things that they need to improve their lives. The other side of this is this is an enormous business opportunity for the right company to tackle this problem. to tackle this problem. There's actually very few things in the world that grow exponentially 30 plus percent year on year and the world's hunger for bandwidth is one of those things. There really is just few things out there you can imagine. Sam talked about growing markets and there are very, very few places where the market grows this fast and this consistently. So why is this still a problem after all of these years and all of the many billions of dollars that have been spent in space? And the answer, I think, is captured pretty well in this picture. So this is a picture of what telecommunication satellites look like today. They are massive double-decker bus sized satellites that cost several hundred million dollars or half a billion dollars each. With small satellites we can do the same job at a fraction of the cost. At Astronis, we've already put our first test satellite in space, and it's orbiting right now, working great. We launched it a few months ago. We have raised a very large funding round, Series A, from a firm called Andreessen Horowitz. So very well funded. Going to be around for a little while, see this thing through. And we have a spectacular team of engineers. We're just over 30 people now from Google, SpaceX, Skybox, some of the larger aerospace companies, some of the larger aerospace companies, a huge array of specialties across software, mechanical, controls, you name it. Every possible type of engineering you can imagine. And really, I mean, I just can't say enough about how fortunate we are to have this team. You may have heard that SpaceX is doing a constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to try and solve this problem. The lead antenna engineer for that constellation just left SpaceX to join Astronis. Yes. Sorry, one other really important point. You do not actually have to have space experience or even embedded experience to join the team. We have a whole group of veteran engineers. They have put the operating system in place. This is more application-level code, so please do not let that dissuade you. I wanted to talk a little bit about the company culture. So we're very hands-on. We build lots of hardware. We build it fast. We iterate quickly. You have an opportunity to learn from all these different disciplines and engineers of all stripes, like I mentioned, if you want. We have something we're very proud of, which we call a blameless culture. These things are hard and we know things are going to go wrong. And the other thing is we take work-life balance seriously at Astronis. And we have baby goats. It's the most random thing ever, but we'd love to do trips out to the farms, to farms outside of the Bay Area, do these retreats, and do fun things with the team. And that's Astronis. So thank you very much. Hi, everyone. My name's Chris Szymanski, and I'm the head of engineering at Atrium, a tech-enabled law firm for startups. And at Atrium, a tech-enabled law firm for startups. And at Atrium, we're making legal services fast and transparent, and we're building a platform that turns documents into data. So legal is broken, and we hear this from our clients all the time, with quotes like this. Atrium works to fix legal. And we do that with a fully digitized legal services platform that's powered by both real lawyers and AI. So our team of lawyers makes better decisions thanks to our AI technology. This is a massive market, over $400 billion per year, and it's highly fragmented with the top 25 law firms only holding a 13% market share. There's also very few, in fact, only one law firm startup who's tackling this market, and that's Atrium. We employ cutting-edge ML technologies, and every day we work hand-in-hand with both lawyers, and you'll see here engineers and lawyers working together. hand-in-hand with both lawyers and you'll see here engineers and lawyers working together. We're working to transform an extremely outdated industry and lowering barriers for entrepreneurs to get access to legal services. We'd love to have you join our team. We're hiring software engineers and you'll get to work with Justin Kahn, our CEO, myself, head of engineering, Max Cantor, our head of data, and our 20 other engineers. We'd love to have you apply at atrium.co slash engineering. Thank you so much. Thank you. Hi, cool. Hi, hello? Hi, my name is Tammy Sun. I am the co-founder and CEO of Carrot Fertility. We make customized fertility benefits for modern companies. What does that mean? That means that we make it easier and more affordable for employees to access everything from personalized fertility education through text, video, voice chat with fertility experts, data-driven learning modules, and making egg freezing, IVF, and everything in between all the way to surrogacy easier and more affordable. And so our mission is fertility care for all. The first goal of our mission is to make fertility benefits and care it in particular as standard in the modern workplace as medical dental and vision coverage. This is a mission that has met its moment. Today even more than 50% of Millennials believe that fertility should be equal with dental and vision as coverage at work. And so these trends have helped Carrot become the leading provider of fertility benefits in the U.S. for mid-market companies and we're moving very quickly into the enterprise. We have thousands of members who we call employees across the country and we're operational in nearly 30 countries around the world. So why join us? Well, there's three reasons. First, it's the product. What sets our engineers apart is that each of them is a key player in every aspect of developing the product. You're not just simply releasing release after release. You're going to help decide what to build next, and you're going to be responsible for making sure how we measure success after the release. The second is product market fit. So we know that companies want Carrot, and we're really lucky and proud that companies who are working with us love it. So we're really proud to be working with some of the most important public and private technology companies in the world, but we're also breaking into finance, media, real estate, and even retail. So, the market opportunity is enormous, and this is a really exciting time to be at the company where you're going to be pushed and challenged to be doing way more than probably what you're qualified for. And the last is that this is a mission that matters. And if it matters to you, then this is my promise to you. You're going to have the opportunity to do some of the best work of your life on a solution whose time has come. And in exchange, Carrot and me personally promise you a 50X opportunity for growth in ways that you won't be able to achieve anywhere else. So I'm here today with my product engineering team, Pat, Dan, and Arun. I don't know where you guys are, if you could raise your hands. Please come find us afterwards to talk about fertility, what we're doing, why we're doing it, how we're doing it, what's egg freezing, and why you might be our next teammate. Thank you. Hey guys, I'm Dave from Chartio. And our mission, we call it Join People on Data. And basically what that means for us is, Excel's been around for about 30 years. Anyone can work with data, it's really easy to use. But as soon as the data gets bigger than a spreadsheet, as soon as you're working with databases of data, all of a sudden you have to know SQL, you have to be a data scientist, you have to be an engineer to work with it. We think that's really stupid, and we're out to solve that. One of the ways we've solved it is we've created what we visual. So it's just drag and drop. Anyone can do it. It's a way better way to explore data. Just like Windows made DOS visual so way more people could use computers. We've done that with SQL. And it's one visual drag and drop language that works with all the databases. Redshift, MySQL, Hadoop, Hive. Like all the databases. Also Salesforce, Marketo, HubSpot. All the different sources of data you could be coming from. One language for all, and then we make it really easy for you to make charts and dashboards and share that with your whole team. So we're in the BI space. We compete with Tableau. We consistently get rated just really, really well. There's four main categories that we're rated on in our space. We have a lot of competitors. And we're number one in three of those categories and number two in the fourth. So we do really awesome. Because of that, we have 800-some customers and some really great brands. These guys are using primarily Chartio as their main data tool. And we're profitable. We've done all this with 10 or less engineers. Our competitors have hundreds of engineers. We've done this because, one, our engineers are really awesome. Two, we just keep really good coding practices. We keep minimal of engineers. We've done this because, one, our engineers are really awesome. Two, we just keep really good coding practices. We keep minimal technical debt. We have really strong coding review processes. We keep really pragmatic about our code base. And it's never been a better time to build more features on to Chartio. We keep it that way because this will be a product that will always have continually more and more interesting, awesome projects to build on top of it. It's like a data language. There's all kinds of things to continually build on it. So we know that. So we're looking for more senior and mid-level engineers to join our awesome team. And we're also looking for some junior engineers who are really smart and interesting learning from a really top-notch team. So thanks a lot. JONATHAN THORNEAUX- Hi, everyone. My name is Jonathan, and I'm co-founder and CTO at Checkr. At Checkr, we do background checks. We started four years ago and built an API, and then discovered a lot more issues around the industry. There's a lot of unfairness, a lot of inaccuracies, and a lack of transparency, and we are working to change that. Every month, we work with great customers such as Uber and Lyft and run one million background checks every month. Our team is more than 200 people, and we are profitable and making money. On the engineering side, I wanted to highlight a few challenges we have. Identity matching is really hard, and it's core to the accuracy of the background checks. We use ML to improve automation and efficiency, and it's in production. Platform reliability is also really key as we process millions of transactions every month and it's really hard because we work with 10 000 plus data sources that are really unreliable and unstable. And then every feature that you would work on would touch millions of users. Come chat with us and learn more. Thank you. Hey everyone, I'm Chandan, co-founder of Cointracker, a portfolio and tax manager for cryptocurrency. Raise your hand if manager for cryptocurrency. Raise your hand if you own cryptocurrency. All right, pretty tech-savvy crowd here. Basically, what Cointracker does is it integrates all the top crypto exchanges and wallets into one unified dashboard. And with the click of a button, you can file your crypto taxes too. Underneath the hood, in order to file your taxes, we are building some foundational tech that relies upon billions of rows of pricing data across over 2,500 coins, over 100 exchanges, and it complies with the local regulations in different places, all under a simple, easy-to-use interface. Since we started building this in September, we've grown to over 350 million dollars of crypto assets tracked, over 55,000 exchange accounts generating over 300 thousand dollars of revenue. And this puts us in a unique position to now we can build even bigger products such as a unified front-end for cryptocurrency, non-custodial wallets, and enterprise crypto accounting software. And we're backed by some of the best in the industry, including the co-founder of Reddit, the founder of Protocol Labs, the first seed investors in Coinbase, and a bunch of others. Previously, I was a product manager at Alphabet. My co-founder, John, was a Google software engineer and successful founder. And now you have the opportunity to be a founding engineer at a hyper-growth startup. Come find us afterwards in the blue shirts to learn more. Thank you. Hi, we're CrowdAI, and we're building an API for change detection for aerial, satellite, and SAR data. Why are we doing this? We're trying to replace large-scale operations that are primarily manual. Why is this interesting for you guys to join? Well, we're solving a two-prong technical problem, right? The first is the lack of training data for segmentation. And we currently have one of the largest segmentation training data sets in the world in over 126 countries. And secondly, we have built our own convolutional neural net architecture for segmentation of geospatial data. In fact, we recently placed that CVPR. So what are our customers using our data for? We currently can find roads better than what's on Google Maps and on OpenStreetMaps and we work with ride sharing companies and mapping companies. The same product that we have built is also used by the US government for various finding different types of objects. The same type of tool that we use for ride sharing companies, mapping companies, we also use for insurance and utilities companies. In this case we find destruction post wildfires in Santa Rosa as well as flooding in regions after hurricanes. We currently have rolled out a new product for E&P companies. We're one of the only companies, if not the only company, that can find fracking on a weekly basis, if not daily basis. Why are we so good at what we do? We've got a fantastic team of 10 from Google, OpenAI, IBM Watson, and University of Oxford. Please come join us as a machine learning engineer, and please talk to me and my colleague, Jagar, over there in the back. Thank you. Hi, my name is Yen. Hi, I'm Varsha. And I'm Max. And we're from DoorDash. Now, I'm Varsha. And I'm Max. And we're from DoorDash. Now, I was mingling a little bit earlier, and people asked, DoorDash, are you guys still a startup? And we are a startup. We're still a startup. It's been, you know, four or five years. I think one of the advantages of being an older startup is that the founders can now send people to events like this. So, I'm not a founder, but I represent DoorDash. And so what is DoorDash? I think most of you know what we are. We're a technology company that specializes in food delivery and last mile logistics. I know we're known for food delivery, but we are actually expanding into other verticals, like groceries. So you may have heard this spring we actually started a grocery pilot with Walmart. So we're growing very, very quickly. Now some fun facts. This spring we raised $535 million from top investors like Sequoia and SoftBank. We deliver food from over 100,000 merchants across the nation every day. And we're expanding into cities, new cities, every week, and expect to be in 1,600 cities by the end of the year. Now, there is, you know, something with a more mundane service or ordinary service like food delivery, but I think one thing you should think about is, why do we take it for granted? And we take it for granted because that's where society is trending. So in a world where same-day delivery becomes ubiquitous and is actually the norm, you know, that's kind of what we're thinking about. And that's where we are sort of taking our platform. So come join us. Our booth is pretty obvious. So, you know, we're good. We're very good people. Work with us. And get 80% of the startup experience without all the risk. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Peter, the CEO of Emberse. We issue corporate cards that enforce expense policies. So as an employee, when you spend on behalf of your business, the expense is pre-approved, a report is generated, and a budget is tracked in real time. We started the year with just two full-time founders, and we're now at nine employees with three engineers. We have 200 paying clients who collectively spend more than $7 million a month using our product. We've been able to scale our business to its current size with just three engineers by being disciplined about code maintainability, and by preserving a simplicity of infrastructure. I was one of the technical co-founders of a company called Crocodoc that was acquired by Box, and I've had years of experience working with the other two engineers on the team. Together we've launched credit cards using both MasterCard and most recently on the Visa Payments Network as one of the first expense solutions to launch a product using Stripe's new issuance API. As launch a product using Stripe's new issuance API. As we build our business, we're looking for an engineer to take ownership of a sizeable piece of our infrastructure by augmenting our fraud detection algorithms using machine learning, or by designing new bot interactions for our Slack integration. Again, my name is Peter, and I'm joined by Cameron and Winston, the other two engineers on the team. We have the only purple table in the other room, and I hope to talk to you afterwards. Hi, I'm Jared Seehofer. I'm the CEO and co-founder of Enzyme. I'd like you all to remember three numbers. Four, seven, and ten. Average time to market for a new software medical device is four years. For a hardware device, like a pacemaker, that's seven years. And for a new drug, ten years. 10 years. Why is that? Well, it's kind of a complex question, but this is one reason. That's an FDA submission. And yeah, that picture was taken in the 60s. We've evolved a little since then. You can send PDFs now, but you still have to send a paper copy. Bottom line is that if you're in life science tech, you're dealing with enormous quantities of data. The problem is that regulated companies have terrible information systems, and this leads to things like rote work doing paper pushing, delays, and arbitrary decision making. The good news is as software engineers, we have an idea on how to fix the terrible information system part. How do we do it? Well, we combine a Rails web app with an NLP ML backend that extracts data that users upload and programmatically writes FDA submissions. And even though we're working in a regulated environment, we still follow software development best practices with hourly CI and weekly deploys to production. Most importantly though, by automating the FDA approval process, we're helping life science innovators get their products to market one to three years faster than they otherwise would. And our customers are making some really, really cool stuff. If this excites you, we'd love to talk. We're hiring for both full stack and NLP ML roles. Thank you. Hey everyone, I'm Michael from Vocal Systems. For the past several decades there's been little to no innovation inside the four walls of brick-and-mortar retail, whether it be inventory management, like out-of-stocks, or... What's going on here? No? Bear with us. Cool. Yeah. So where I was leaving off is inventory management is a big problem with inside brick-and-mortar retailer. It hasn't been much innovation. How we find things on sale or items in the store and the checkout process in general is extremely inefficient. There's a lot of friction there. And all the friction inside of brick and mortar retail right now is driving a lot of us to go shop online. What we're doing at Focal Systems is we deploy hardware and software inside retail environments and we use images to provide solutions like out-of-stock detection, automated checkout, or indoor location to let you know where you are while you're traveling throughout the store. Currently, we're working with six of the world's biggest retailers to solve these challenges, and we're looking for deep learning engineers, mechanical engineers, web engineers, and data scientists to scale our business. Come talk to me at the Focal Systems booth. I'm looking forward to automating brick-and-mortar retail with you. Hello, everybody. I'm Rok, and I head engineering for Her. Her is the largest, world's largest LGBTQ female space and queer consumer app. We run a mobile app that is used by over 3 million users in 55 countries. We reach 38 million people per year and we organize over 100 events that attract over 80 gay people. Our goal is to make home for world's identities and we want to make every lesbian, queer and bisexual person feel at home. What else? Our core values that we feel reflect the entire team is that we're great together, that we foster ownership and responsibility, that we try to learn, master and contribute back to the team. And we are kind of low on ego, and we always struggle to do more with less. Some of the things that engineers have done on our team recently is a deep and wide deep learning recommender for meeting new people. It's a scammer detection tool using NLP, and we've recently internationalized both mobile apps. First language, French, for many more to come. Currently, we're mostly looking for mobile engineers. We're kind of looking for thoughtful, product-oriented engineers who care enough about UX and are going to help us create some space that has been like traditionally super underserved into something that community will feel and take for its own. And we all work tirelessly on this goal by believing that this is something bigger than us, that we're creating a better new future for a lot of the demographics that have traditionally been overlooked. Thank you very much. Hi, everyone. I'm Betsy Larkin. I'm the founder of Honeylove. We are a direct-to-consumer fashion brand that makes clothing with built-in targeted compression that accentuates body shape. We're a part of the current YC batch, and we're hiring a founding CTO. Some of you might not be familiar with this space, but we've been able to prove that there's a strong demand for our products. We raised over $300,000 on Kickstarter in the spring. This past week, we started shipping and also launched sales from our website. In just the first week, we brought in over $30,000 in revenue and are also profitable right out of the gate. In terms of the founding CTO position, we're looking for people who are passionate about creating amazing e-commerce experiences. So on the front end, custom check out flows. On the backend, fulfillment, warehouse, inventory management software. And then as the third team member, you guys would also be instrumental in helping us to build out the team. So if that sounds interesting to you, please find me. Thanks. Hello, hello. My name is Alex Harmsen. I'm one of the co-founders of Iris Automation. We build collision avoidance systems for industrial drones, drones that are being used for railway inspection, farming surveys, mining exploration, even things like package delivery in air taxis. About a year ago, pretty much every single aviation authority around the world mandated this type of collision avoidance system to be on board millions of drones everywhere. Essentially these drones can't be used for any sort of beyond line-of-sight operations, anything autonomous, anything scaled, any one of the industries that I just mentioned without this critical technology. The way we build it is we use computer vision and AI software to be able to allow these drones to see the world the way a pilot does. This is not easy. I mean, essentially, we're taking these current drones, and we're adding these systems to them to be able to actually allow them to see objects that are thousands of feet away in real time with size, weight, and power constraints. in real time with size, weight, and power constraints. This needs to be aviation quality, a problem similar to self-driving cars, but way harder. We do this by modeling human perception and really understanding how pilots see the world. Ultimately, it's software. We're able to do remote software updates, continuously improve the product using the latest embedded GPUs and cameras. And we do this by layering traditional geometric computer vision algorithms with more semantic understanding through artificial intelligence. So far we've collected more than 50 terabytes of data of real collisions. We have a chief pilot on staff. We have drone operators. We're going out into different landscapes, environments, different conditions and collecting all of this data as well as all of our customers internationally. Not just that, we're able to do hundreds of thousands of collisions in simulation, in hardware-in-the-loop environments. We've built up an entire architecture behind the scenes to make sure that every new algorithm is tested and is worthy for the world. Currently we have a 25 person team. We've raised over 10 million dollars. These systems are actively going out and for us it's a combination of people from the self-driving car worlds, avionics. Me and my co-founder, we came from Boeing and NASA originally with lots of experience in the drone space. So if you're interested in any of what you just heard, specifically for computer vision experts and anyone who has worked on C++, come and find us. We have a booth in the other room and a huge sign that you won't miss. Great job. Hi, everybody. My name's Andrew Corey. I'm the CEO of Level 5. So autonomous cars, they're like a really hot thing in 2018. And there's so much hype. But autonomous cars still suck. And that's really sad. So we make maps. Maps, you say? Haven't maps already been created? No. We make HD maps. And HD maps are really different than regular maps because they're these 3D representations of the environment. It includes everything from lane lines, traffic lights, signs, pedestrian crosswalks, pretty much everything, you name it. And so we're mapping this using cameras and computer vision. And how do we do this? Well, we have a program called Paver. And if you have an iPhone, you can download Paver and make money just by driving. So we have a lot of Uber drivers on the platform doing this for us. And Paver is a really special application because it has on edge machine learning. And we really get your phone cooking. We use metal, we use everything. We're running powerful computer vision algorithms to do segmentation, to detect cars, pedestrians, lane lines, buildings. We literally get your phone cooking. It uses 5% of battery every two minutes or something. It's like, so basically what I'm saying is we need people to help optimize this. We have over 10,000 drivers. And yeah, so we're getting a ton of data in. We have like 500 terabytes, or 500, we have almost a petabyte of data. And so we take all this, the reconstruction happens on the phone. But then we send all these point clouds up to the server. And we aggregate all this stuff together server side to create these really, really high detailed centimeter level maps of the world. And this is like really important for self-driving cars. It's like a git diff for maps. And self-driving car companies really need this. But we really need you, especially if you're an iOS engineer or just someone interested in mapping or autonomous cars or vision or anything like that. Come talk to me. So, yeah, come map the world with us. Thank you. Thank you. That's funny. It's just in the middle. So every company you're hearing from today has the potential to shape the world, but they all have one big problem in common. They can't hire enough talent. We're fixing that. Make School is a new model of college focused on training students for high-growth tech companies like all the companies you're hearing from today. We're starting with computer science. model of college focused on training students for high-growth tech companies like all the companies you're hearing from today. We're starting with computer science, eventually we might look to robotics, biotech, and more. We have placed our alumni at Google X, we've placed alums at OpenAI, one of our alums leads mobile at Linebike, and about 40% of our students get offers from YC companies. That gives you a sense of the talent that's coming out of here. But we also care a lot about diversity. 40% of our students are underrepresented students of color and 50% are low-income students. We are the first bachelor's granting institution where students can graduate in only two years and they can pay tuition as a percentage of earnings once they graduate. Instead of building software, we want you to build developers. But this is not just like any teaching job. This is like being a senior engineer mentoring and coaching junior developers. Our school feels much more like a workplace than a classroom. Building developers will accelerate the future and maximize your impact. It's really high leverage because instead of working for one company, you're training an army of students to go work at all of them. You should work with us if you're passionate about teaching and coaching and mentoring, if you want to build a scalable system for upward mobility for all the people who don't have the opportunities that we do, and you want to help accelerate economic growth everywhere in the world. Thank you. Got some giggles. No, we're serious. Okay, hi. My name's Hua. I'm the CEO and co-founder of Meadow. We build cannabis SaaS. So our products include retail point-of systems, inventory management, automatic compliance reports and delivery. We process over $10 million of weed per month. And it's growing. Our mission is to build the best software in the cannabis industry, and it's growing from $9.7 billion last year to $47 billion in the next 10 years. This is our team. We're a team of 10 people working together in San Francisco. Our engineer team is four, three of which are my co-founders, so you, one of you, Lucky, or two, will be our next second or third engineering hire, which we're really excited about. Our front end consists of three React apps that power the point-of-sale, that power the dispensary management system, and then we have one iPad point-of-sale app that's deployed across all of these dispensaries in California. We utilize Node.js and really run the latest version and utilize the latest JavaScript technology such as Async 08. Come say hi. My co-founders Scott and Rick are here wearing our Meadow shirts. We're looking forward to hanging out with you guys. Thank you. Welcome. My name is Keith with mystery.org. We create video explanations for kids' questions, like why is the sky blue? Most questions that children ask, grown-ups don't know how to answer. Eventually, kids stop asking, and their curiosity fades away. So we're creating explanations for every question kids have. Think of us like a visual Wikipedia for kids. We're already used by teachers in 50% of elementary schools in the US. We'll do nearly 8 million in sales this year. And now we're scaling our platform to answer every question and reach kids everywhere. And we need a couple engineers to help us. There's 30 people on our team. Eight of them are engineers. Our team is former Facebook, Palantir, Google, and we move fast. We deploy code a dozen times a day to production. But that's just table stakes. We're looking for engineers that are passionate about creating great product experiences. You'll work closely with our designers, our customers. You'll make product experiences. You'll work closely with our designers, our customers, you'll make product decisions, and you'll be surrounded by a group of people that you'll learn from every day. People who've contributed to Rails, people from the Bundler core team, people who find Ruby a little slow and will drop into C and write a custom gem. But what is it that you're building? This is a new kind of wiki software. Wikis are great for a group of people to collaborate on creating a text document. We're building a platform so a group of people can collaborate on creating video explanations for kids. So come join us if you want to help the next generation of children grow up and stay curious. We'll be across the way. Thanks. Who here rents? Cool. 93% of landlords use credit as the primary indicator of who they're going to rent to. 67% of people under the age of 35 have subprime credit scores in America, and less than 5% of people will ever be evicted in their life. When it comes to renting, credit is broken, but we figured out how to fix it. So, Neighborly is a credit bureau that has built an AI-based credit score for the rental industry that helps landlords know who they're renting to, while helping tenants access fair credit and build their credit by just paying their rent. We give our product away completely for free and we, which includes a credit report, criminal background check, everything. We make money selling renter's insurance and that's allowed us to grow from 1,000 to 350,000 rentals in 18 months, which is like one half of a percent of America now using us. That means that every day, 20 people at Neighborly decide where thousands of people live, which is a responsibility we take super seriously, and that's what we need your help with. So if you want to solve hard problems with real-world applications of AI, building inclusive user experiences that really need to matter for an incredibly diverse group of people, and you want to have an impact on something that really matters, like housing and credit in America, then you should come talk to us. Thank you. Hello, I'm Scott Patterson. I head up the engineering team at Notable Labs where we're doing personalized drug discovery for blood cancer. So the basic idea is that we take a patient's actual cells, we test different combinations of approved drugs, and we see what kills the cancer and keeps the healthy cells alive. We focus on combinations because many of the driver mutations are very difficult to drug with a single drug and in blood cancer particularly if you start with a single drug it may lead to a resistant clone and relapse of the cancer. Broadly our goal is identifying personalized combinations of approved drugs that a patient can use today. We're using the same platform to do drug discovery, so both internally and in partnership with a number of pharma companies. The platform we're building consists of our proprietary biology, where we're miniaturizing the microenvironment around the cells so that we can scale up and do the number of combinations that we need to test. We have our custom built software machine learning to handle automating the analysis and handling these complex scientific workflows. And we've automated the whole thing with robotics and lab automation so that we can scale up and have a reproducible assay. We're actively hiring software engineers, data scientists, and cancer scientists. So if you want to work on an awesome mission where you can have an impact on patients' lives today with a team of super talented and diverse engineers and scientists on a modern tech stack, come and talk to us. Thank you. Hi, everyone. I'm Lucas from NovoCredit. I'm the CTO and co-founder and Nova is the world's first international credit history platform and we have successfully raised a Series A recently and are backed by General Catalyst and Index Ventures and of course are actively hiring. And I'm going to tell you a little bit about our problem first and then our solution. So what is it that we're solving for? The problem is that immigrants today, they just cannot get credit in foreign markets. So all of your credit histories that you have and your borrowing behavior and your payments details, they are stuck in their market. And this is a really big problem. This is a really big problem because if you get into a new market, you want to get started. You want to get like rental. You want to, you know, sorry, rent an apartment. You want to get a credit card. you want to lease a car. So how do we solve this problem? We solve this problem by having one API for global data. So this is creating one standardized format across the world for credit history data. We aggregate from database across all over the world and expose that with one unique API data point. So why do you want to, why should you work at Nova? So we have technical challenges that are really interesting. So we have massive ETL pipelines, we have infrastructure systems that need to be cross-region, they need to talk to each other at all times, and we face a lot of graph machine learning problems because of all these databases across the world. So come talk at us, sorry, come talk to us at our booth. We have 1030 people at our San Francisco office, a beautiful office. And yeah, just come talk to us. We are looking for infrastructure system engineers, backend engineers, frontend engineers, full-stack engineering. Please get across the board. Thank you. Hi everyone, I'm Kevin, the co-founder and CEO of Pathrise. We are YC for careers instead of companies. So what does that mean? That means we help and mentor students and young professionals to get the best possible job and find fulfilling work. Everything from outreach tactics, to resume review, to interview preparation, and to negotiation advice. One of the things to keep in mind is that we're not a coding bootcamp, we're not an interview prep course, we're not a replacement for college. Instead what we do is we guide you through your job search afterwards and help you figure out the stuff in your early career that nobody else is going to teach you. The catch is, it's completely free until you get hired and start work. The whole point is that our fellows pay $0 out of pocket, and instead, we recoup our investment back from an income share of their salary only after they've already started their employment. It's affordable to anyone, accessible to anyone online, and we actually have aligned incentives with our fellows. You might want to join our team if you want to do more than just code and would love to spend a significant amount of your time working with students that are aspiring to be engineers. You might wanna join our team if you wanna fix a broken model of career services that it's ridiculous how far and how bad it's gotten. And you might wanna join our team if you're not looking for a company that's building the next big social media app or gadget. You're not looking for a company that's building the next big social media app or gadget. You're not looking for a company that's going to maybe provide marginal utilities to hundreds of millions of individuals. Instead you're looking for a company that invests in every single fellow that we go through and one where I can say that even if we collapse today there's a hundred students where we've literally changed their lives. And for those of you that are less experienced and aspiring engineers, for those of you that are still students or recent graduates, come talk to us. We'd love to give you free advice and any help you might need. No strings attached. Thanks. And it's the button in the middle. Can you click for me? Hi, my name is Tracy Young. I'm one of the co-founders and CEO of PlanGrid. Hello, my name is Ralph Goody. I'm the CTO and co-founder of PlanGrid. PlanGrid builds beautiful, simple, powerful software for the 14 trillion dollar per year construction industry. We are part of Y Combinator's winter 2012 batch and in the last six years we've helped build over 1 million construction projects. Today we have customers, paying customers, in over 80 countries. You probably don't know this but one out of every 10 people in the world eat, sleep, and breathe construction every single day. And for us, it's a privilege to be able to write software for some of the hardest working people in the world. As an engineer, what excites me about PlaneGrid is not only do you get to work on deep, technically challenging problems, you also get to work with customers that you get to know, that love you, that love your software, and that rely on it to get their job done. So we're hiring across the board. We're hiring mobile developers, that's iOS, Android, even Windows. We've got web, backend, Python, data science, machine learning. We're hiring everything. We've got a modern stack just like everybody else here. We're a diverse team of 350 people and growing. We deeply care about fairness in the world. In 2016, PlanGrid took the United States Equal Pay Pledge, and I am proud to share that we pay our men and women equally. We also have... Thank you. We also have great benefits for individuals and families, and we pay well. And we would love to meet you. Plangrid.com, Ralph, move your head, slash careers. We're also by this big-ass fan over in the other building, so come talk to us. Thank you. Thank you. Awesome. in the other building, so come talk to us. Thank you. Hi, everyone. My name is Avni, and I am the founder and CEO of Poppy. Our mission is to build the modern village for every family. Right now we're doing that by building the platform that connects parents with amazing fetish caregivers when they need child care. Why is that important? Well there's a shiny happy version of parenthood out there and then there's the super messy kind of reality. The reality that needs lots of help and support but for lots of reasons doesn't exist. But we believe that you can do that with the amazing people that live in our communities and with a little bit of thoughtful technology. Our general thesis is that if you can connect parents with the people that they trust, are available when they need them to be, and are a really good fit for their families, you can really approximate that idea of village. And the amazing news is, is that over the last two years, we've been doing that. For thousands of families in Seattle, we've been creating that experience that Sam is talking about that you're looking for, that really fanatical product that is really solving real problems for people, both on the parent and family side, but then also importantly, creating really amazing jobs on the other side. But we're only just getting started. If you think about how to scale this kind of marketplace there's so many interesting and hard problems to work on. What is the right matching model when you're talking about people and families and kids? How do you think about supply and demand optimization? How do you think about automation when you're thinking about people? And overall, just how do you create really simple and seamless technology that almost disappears and becomes invisible within people's lives? So we're looking for people, smart people, that wanna solve a really hard, really important problem. And join our team in Seattle, who is made up of really fun, amazing, dedicated people that really want to solve this really important problem. So if you want to solve a real world problem, build features that get into the hands of our users the next day, if you're driven by talking to users and really iterating and understanding how a product can help them. And if you want to use your superpowers for good and live in a city that you can actually afford to live in, come talk to me. You can either catch me on Twitter or find me at the booth in the other room. Thank you. So great. Hello, everyone. I'm Chris. I'm the CEO of Precious. Precious uses AI to organize the photos of your kids. Here's the problem. My daughter is three years old and I have 20,000 photos of her. In 2018, that's normal. Our technology will scan that mess, find the meaningful moments, and build the perfect album for your kids. We believe that this is important. We believe that this is important because we believe it's very important to make families happier and stronger. We're an early C-stage company, and we're only three people. But we already have a lot of traction. Users love our early products so much that they've given us 4 and 1 half star reviews, over thousands of reviews, and we have 62,000 subscribers who pay $5 per month to use our app. And these are subscribers over 100 countries around the world. That translates to almost $3 million in annual revenue with a three person team. Joining Precious won't be for everyone, but here's why it might be awesome for you. You'll get the impact, responsibility, and equity of joining an early stage company that also has revenue and profit. On a small team, we really do want you to take tons of responsibility and ownership, come up with ideas on your own, and ship them to users quickly. And finally, we're not a sweatshop. We truly value work-life balance. I have two toddlers, and I get home to have dinner with them every single day, except for tonight, because I can't get home to San Francisco in time. So in summary, we are precious. What we offer to you is a chance to use AI to organize the photos of people's kids. We want you to take big responsibilities on our small team and you'll get a chance to come to work to make families happier and stronger every day. That sounds interesting to you. Please come find me and my co-founder wearing the icon of the smiling baby later. I would love to chat with you. Thanks. Hi, my name is Phaedra, and I used to run revenue and operations at an Andreessen-funded startup. And I realized that technology actually had the potential to do incredible good. And so a friend and I co-founded Promise and we're helping people get out and stay out of jail. Right now, 75% of people in jail have not been convicted of the crime they were arrested for. They're there because they cannot afford bail. Two-thirds of those folks are bail eligible, are nonviolent offenders who are stuck in jail. What we know is the longer you stay in jail, the more likely you are to go back to jail. The more likely you are to lose your job, the more likely you are to lose your housing, the more likely you are to have serious consequences. So what do we do about it? Well the good thing is that there is a solution with software. First, most people are likely to go to jail for technical violations. That's like they missed an appointment with their probation officer. And so software can actually help figure out how do you make your appointments, where should you be, how do you speak and connect. We can do all of that through software. More importantly, we can give people tools about how to analyze data so that we can start to figure out who should not be in jail. We have an incredible team. Mike to my left, we got from Uber. Who wants to work at that little startup when you could work here? We stole our engineering lead from Stripe. Again, I mean, come on, big choice, promise. And so we have an incredible team of people who have not just raised money from incredible investors like First Round Capital and Jay-Z, incredible investors like First Round Capital and Jay-Z, but that we are committed to social change with the best people leaving the best places to create a company that actually can create equity and use technology to scale justice. Thank you. Wow, what a motivating startup. Let's give it up for Promise. That was awesome. Yeah. I'm one of the founders of a company called Quartzy. I'm Jay, and this is Sylvie. And we are here to talk about how we accelerate the pace of scientific discovery. So what is Quartzy? We've built the operating system for scientific labs all over the world and labs use us to run their operations and the way we make money is not through the software. We give the software away for free so labs in India, in China, all over the world can benefit from the software productivity. We make money when we labs buy their supplies from us. So what we are doing is pretty hard. We build world-class software for companies all over the world and we give it away for free and we make money when we ship supplies to them. So it's Salesforce and Amazon put together. We have a million cubic foot warehouse in the East Bay, and we are opening up a new warehouse on the West Coast in the coming year. So who are our customers? This is Elizabeth Blackburn. She got the Nobel Prize in 2009, and she's one of the nine Nobel Prize winners on Quad C today. We have more scientists who won the Nobel Prize using our application than any academic institution in the world. But it's only not small labs. Biology is going to reshape the way we live. The same way that physics and computer science changed the 20th century, biology will reshape the 21st century. And we are building a platform to make that happen. One of our customers is using molecular biology to make plant-based protein and they buy from us. But that's not just startups, we have publicly traded pharma and biotech companies who use us and buy from us. We have 4,000 customers nationally, we have made 30 million dollars in sales this year, we're a 60% company, so it's the right time to join us where we've sort of like proven out the business model. And now we are going to scale this up globally. And why do you work with us? So what's it like to work at Quartzy? I think at Quartzy you'd be joining a team of the most genuine, ambitious, and driven people that I've ever met. And we focus not only on helping the scientists, but also helping each other succeed. So come join us. You know, we're located HQ in Palo Alto if you like the sunny California weather. But if you like breweries and cheaper rent, we also offer remote positions so you could be working in Portland. Or if you want to be like the stock photo and code in a suit, or take a month off in, or not off, but spend the month in Maui. You know, we have those remote opportunities as well. So all coming together, we have science, people, and remote opportunities. All right, hey everybody. So we're Reach Labs, and Reach Labs is long-range wireless electricity, but that's actually useful. So we're able to provide a reliable source of power to any enabled device without a physical tether. And the reason that we're building this is not only to augment current devices, charge cell phones, charge robots, et cetera, but more to enable applications that couldn't exist without this technology. And we'd be willing to talk more about that if you come say hi to us. So the fun part is sort is how we do it. We use high dimensional adaptive antenna arrays wrapped with a lot of nonlinear optimization, algorithmic control, to pinpoint devices in a power network with radio transmission. So we're able to send energy through the air just in the same way that Wi-Fi sends data. We're founded out of MIT, so we're kind of nerds for research. One of the big things that we really like to do is, you know, scrape the world of electromagnetics research, optimization research, and incorporate that into our core products. So our initial applications are actually, unfortunately, not to charge your cell phones, but are rather focused on need-to- to have applications which arise most often in the industrial sector So that's you know, IOT sensors autonomous robotics and then you know charging a lot of machinery concurrently Company developments we did just Close our series a with data collective VC. So they're very Sort of top tier, high tech firm. So we're fresh with funding and we're scaling up to be able to make our initial deployments and take on our first clients. We've got a pipeline of clients that are waiting. So all we need is the engineers to help us integrate. Like I said, we're looking for talented, inspired people, people that like researching, fast paced development, et cetera. We're looking for talented, inspired people, people that like researching, fast-paced development, etc. We're a very small team. There's only five of us. All of us are here, so a lot of people have talked about company culture. I think that our culture is best demonstrated by our people. We work out of an old cookie factory from 1903 in Oakland. And we're nothing if not eclectic. So you can come see us. We're all wearing these shirts, and we're nice people. This is what we're hiring for, embedded systems, RF hardware, electrical engineering, and software development. We got a demo running, so we'd love to chat with you all. Thanks. Hello, everyone. My name is Amjad Massad. I'm the co-founder and CEO of Replit. So, it's 2018, and it still sucks getting started into programming. It's really hard. I mean, we're all engineers. Anyone here just loves setting up the development environment? Like that's something they're looking forward to. So one person in the back, don't come work for us. But it's still really hard. So imagine if there's a way to get started with programming in just two seconds. An online IDE with zero setup, a full-featured IDE. You'll have things like code intelligence. As you're coding, you'll see suggestions, and it's full-blown code intelligence for most of the languages that we support, and we support 40 programming languages. Also, live deployment. The moment you open a port on Replit, you just deploy your app. That's how easy it is to deploy apps. There's a lot more. I know people are talking a lot, but I thought the presentation was only 90 seconds, so I didn't put all the features, which will take me an hour to get through. But you know, if you like this kind of stuff, if you like building tools, if you're a hacker, you know, our mission is to get the next billion programmers online. And we're only 0.1% of the way there. You do the math. So fun and challenging problems. We're working on a container orchestration system on the back end, a distributed file system, and we're building the world's fastest IDE. So come talk to me afterwards. Thanks. Hey, I'm David and we're Retool. Retool is a dramatically faster way of building custom internal tools. So let's say you're YouTube and somebody's uploaded a really dodgy video. You want to be able to approve or reject that video. That's an example of a custom internal tool. Our insight is that all custom internal tools all have the exact same building blocks, like tables, buttons, and et cetera. And so Retool have the exact same building blocks, like tables, buttons, and et cetera. And so Retool gives you all these building blocks so you can drag and drop and mix and match them together and build any custom internal tool you might want. That's much faster than building it from scratch every single time. And the market is huge. 50% of all code written goes towards internal tools. That might sound really surprising here in Silicon Valley, but that's because our job is to write code for other people. If you think about all the companies outside of the valley, like Coca-Cola, all of the code they write is all purely internal stuff. And so, so much code goes towards internal tools, and we can make internal tools so much faster, that's a tremendously valuable problem. We started around a year ago, and we're currently just two founders. So we're looking for our first engineer. We're profitable, and we raise the seed round from the founders of Stripe, OpenAI, et cetera. So, if you enjoy working on really hard problems problems and want to have a high impact on the product and engineering, come talk to us after. Thanks. Hey everyone, I'm Alex, CEO and founder of Scale. Hey, everyone. I'm Alex, CEO and founder of Scale. Our vision is to accelerate the development of AI applications. It's no secret that deep supervised learning is changing the world. And the problem is really that you require a ton of data to build supervised deep learning. Google's internal street view data set was more than 2 billion images for a sense of scale. What's really interesting is with supervised deep learning in particular, you have a new way to improve your software, and that's labeling ground truth data. So it turns out that for most of these production use cases, labeling ground truth data is the biggest ball neck for ultimately building incredible applications. So what we've built is an end-to-end API-driven platform for getting ground truth data. We've only been around for two years, but we've already become the standard for ground truth data in the self-driving car and computer vision industries. We work with almost every US-based self-driving company, including companies like Cruise, Zoox, Lyft, as well as tech giants like Pinterest and Airbnb. The real challenge that we have is using AI and great user experience to make humans very efficient at this task of labeling. There is no better place than scale to work on problems like active learning and semi supervised learning to make the process of getting tons of high quality ground truth data very efficiently. Our team is really really incredible. We just wrote a blog post that shows everyone's backgrounds that you can read about. They hail from companies like OpenAI, Google, Dropbox, Facebook, Cruise, et cetera. We have two IOI gold medalists on our team. So I'm very proud of the team that we've built. It's about 30 people right now. And then we're a series B company. We've been invested in by Excel, Index Ventures, as well as Drew Housen and Greg Brockman. So we're building the AWS for AI. Data labeling is just our first product. And we're really sort of building the shovels in the gold rush of AI. Thank you. DAN NOCKS, Hello, everyone. I'm Dan Knox, one of the founders of Science Exchange. Science Exchange is a marketplace for scientific collaboration, or as the economists put it, we're Uber for experiments. So, our core product is an online platform, enterprise platform that is used by scientists at thousands of the world's top R&D organizations, like the one shown here, the life sciences, aerospace, consumer products, and others. We have true product market fit. Since raising our Series C last year, we've tripled our revenue, and it's a really exciting time for the company. Things are really taking off. So a lot of great companies presenting here today. Why should you think about joining Science Exchange? So let's run through a couple of reasons. So first, we're a truly mission-driven company. Our mission is an important one, to improve the quality and efficiency of scientific research and it's the heart of everything we do. Second, we're still a smallish team for a Series C company. There's about 80 of us so far, eight zero, with 20 across product and engineering. So it's a scale wise, it's a great time to join the company because it's still a time we can make a big impact on the company's success and there's still a lot of upside. Third, we have a collaborative engineering culture. It's a supportive environment that really supports rapid skills development, career growth, and has a true ownership mentality. Fourth, we have a diverse team. We truly value diversity and inclusion. For instance, our team currently has a 50-50 gender split. We have a female CEO, my co-founder Elizabeth, and a female VP of engineering. And fifth, downtown Palo Alto. We have an office just off University Avenue, short walk from the Caltrain, and about to move into a ball and you space to accommodate our growth. So there you go. Five reasons to think about joining Science Exchange. You can learn more at our careers page. Come see me, okay? I'm Luciano. I'm the CTO and co-founder of Scope AI. We're an NLP-powered analytics platform for customer conversations. So today, companies receive thousands of unstructured customer feedback every day, and they spend hours manually tagging it to be able to create reports and presentations for their companies. We automate the entire process, which is why they love us. Anybody can log in right now and find out what a customer's saying about any topic and how they feel about it. How do we do this? We plug in directly to all the sources, we extract valuable data from the text, and then we build one of the world's only text-based analytics suites to be able to explore that data. What's extraction look like? So it's easy to find out in the text that somebody said cancel. But what's hard is figuring out why they said cancel. And we use things like semantic role labeling and dependency parsing to decipher what customers are saying, how they feel about certain things. On the analytics suite, we're building one of the only text-based analytics platforms. So you'll be building trending methods and anomaly detection methods for text, as well as predictive models. So what's going to happen in December? You'll be building visualizations for text that go way beyond, say, word clouds. But it's even bigger than that. So we have the customer feedback. We ingest the business actions and we ingest the financial metrics. And that allows us to automate decision-making for companies. Why? You know what customers are saying, you know what happened when they said that, and you know what you did to remedy a situation. So you know next time what you have to do. Like a DoorDash team said, we're good people. Okay, so come talk to us. I met my co-founder at Harvard. We have an amazing set of ex-LinkedIn, ex-Google employees. If you're excited about NLP, if you're excited about ML and production, if you're excited about data, especially textual data, come chat with us. I'm easy to make laugh, so if you want to come tell me jokes, I'm also great at that. But yeah, if you're excited about really being able to listen to customers and being able to map that to decision making, please come chat with us. Thank you. Hi, everybody. I'm Clem from Shown. And at Shown, we are bringing autonomous cargo ships to market. As I'm sure you all know, autonomy is happening everywhere, in cars, trucks, drones. Yet today cargo ships are still operated very inefficiently by a crew of 25 people. So our solution at Shown is to retrofit existing ships with autonomous technology to bring that number down from 25 to 15. So we started about a year ago, and at that time we didn't have access to a cargo ship, mainly because they cost $100 million plus. So we bought a small boat like this one and retrofitted it to prove autonomy. Since then, we've done a lot of work. We've been through WAC at the beginning of the year, we've raised the 4 million seat round, and we have a pilot going on with the third biggest shipping line in the world. And that allows us to have our technology installed on three of their cargo ships operating between the US West Coast and China. At the same time, we've grown from three founders coming from self-driving and drones to a diverse team of nine people, including seven engineers. And we are looking for many more talented people like you to help us by creating intelligent algorithms to understand what's happening around the ships, but also communicate that information to the crew in a sensible way, and also make automatic decisions based on that, in order for the ships to be autonomous. We also have a ton of data. Every week we collect over a terabyte of data for every ship we have. And finally, we need people who can understand how all of the systems on a ship work and help us to integrate our new ships as we're growing. So thank you very much. Come talk to us. Hey, guys. My name's Stefan, and I'm the CEO and co-founder of Starsky Robotics, and we're making driverless trucks. So some of you might know this. Some of you probably don't. But the biggest problem in North American logistics is that it's really really hard to get a person to spend a month at a time in a truck. The reason it's it's such a big problem that even though it pays sixty to ninety thousand dollars a year without a high school diploma there's still a shortage of fifty thousand drivers. So the problem here is not make something autonomous, the problem is make trucks drive without people in them and that's what we're doing. We're making trucks autonomous on the highway, where autonomy is easiest, but teleoperated for the first and last mile. This is going to start. Here we go. So what you're going to see here is one of our trucks driving down the road in Florida with no person sitting behind the wheel. The teleoperator, comfortably sitting in air conditioning 100 miles away, issues high-level controls like changing lanes, changing speed, the types of context-based decisions that humans are great at and robots are really hard to teach. We're going to take people out of the truck and haul freight with them on a regular basis this year, but we need help. Our core product's built on top of ROS with C++ and Python. We're looking for machine learning people with experience in things like TensorFlow and Cafe. We need a lot of help with controls, people with experience with linear and non-linear controllers, but then we're also looking for full-stack engineers, data engineers, and all sorts of other roles. It's really easy to apply for us. You can just go to Starsky.io and apply right now on your phone or on your laptop. We're Starsky Robotics. We're doing driverless trucks. Thanks, guys. Hello. Welcome to YC. So my name is Joe. I'm the founder of a company called Universe. Universe is an app that lets you make an awesome website from your phone. There are plenty of website builders out there. This is the only one designed from the ground up for phones. Here's how it works. Your canvas is a grid. On the grid sit blocks. A block could be anything you want to put on your website, whether it's an image or a song, and you move these around like Lego. Put them and do whatever you want with them. The things people are creating are incredible. Diversity is absolutely staggering. It's inspiring. And it's working. We were part of YC's winter batch this past year. We hit 175,000 sites created. And we just closed our Series A, a $4 million round, by some of the best investors in the Valley, including General Catalyst and Javelin Partners. So now we're growing. We are looking for an iOS engineer, someone who loves building incredible experiences and who wants to help us make our app even better. This is a role open to anybody, anywhere. We are a distributed company. We don't have a stock kitchen with free snacks But we give you freedom and we give you purpose This is about Check We believe that everybody should build the internet, not just people like us. And we build tools to empower everybody to do that. We're looking for our sixth member. We're looking for people who are self-driven, whip smart, and want to be part of something amazing. So find us in the black t-shirts. Hi, my name is Hanan. I'm a co-founder at Valancy. We build and operate long-range, high-payload drones. We started back in 2015. We are based in San Francisco, and we're backed by some of the most prominent Silicon Valley VCs. I know what you're thinking. I had the exact same thought when I started the company. Drone deliveries. Isn't Amazon doing that? Well, first of all, the answer is no. Second, we're not planning to deliver your toothbrush to your backyard using drones. We help deliver critical supplies to our enterprise customers in need of a spare part. And we help deliver medical supplies to hard to reach areas affected by a natural disaster. We also do some super complicated cool stuff like landing a 15-foot drone on a moving vessel in the middle of the ocean to enable ship to shore deliveries and vice versa. We are super experienced smart team of 20 people spread across multiple groups and we are looking to hire more people for our production and R&D teams. If you're looking for your next challenge, come speak to us after this presentation. Thank you. How's it going? I am Max, I am one of the co-founders of Volley, and we make voice-controlled games for Alexa and Google Home. So what is a voice-controlled game? I got a couple examples for you here. The left one, Yes Sire, is basically choose your own adventure, interactive fiction set in medieval times, kind of like those old books probably some of you used to read. The other one, Song Quiz, is sort of a name-that-tune music trivia game where we play short clips of pop music and you try to name the title or the artist. And that one actually is the number one game on Alexa, which is pretty cool. So why join Volley? Three big reasons, I think. One is reach. The second is cool, up-and-coming technology, and the third, look, we literally make fun. So first thing, huge reach. As I said, we have the number one game on Alexa. We have over half a million monthly active players and growing, and just a small team of eight full-time employees supporting that. Alexa and Google Home are exploding. There were over 50 million devices sold last year, and that's going to double or triple again this year. Technology is the future. Look, we make voice-controlled software. It's pretty cool. We work on speech recognition, natural language processing, and we do it all on top of a serverless AWS Lambda stack. We also get cool sort of early access to Amazon and Google technology. So if you want beta programs and you kind of want to know what those companies are up to, we're the first ones to do it on voice. Finally, as I said, we literally make fun. I mean, my job is to bring joy into people's lives every day and yours could be too. I think it's a pretty cool opportunity and it gets me up every day to go to work. So we are Volley. We make games for Alexa and Google Home. We have the number one game on the Alexa store. We're working on up-and-coming technologies. And look, I mean, if you want to get up every day and entertain people, come find us afterwards. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Hey, everyone. I'm Brandon Leonardo. I'm one of the founders of Instacart. We do same-day grocery delivery. It's actually kind of weird. Like, six years ago, it was three of us in a building over there, and now here we are, and we sell billions of dollars a year in groceries, and we do millions of deliveries a month. And we've got a team of about 150 engineers, about 500 all in, that are helping us do that. And our objective over the next few years is really to be the world leader in online groceries. And our primary goal in that is to build a team to win. And that's something that's inclusive of our shoppers. So we've got tens of thousands of shoppers out in the field shopping every day. And we're going to need, you know, hundreds of thousands over the next year to achieve our goals. And that also means, you know, we're about a team of 150 right now. We're hiring another 200 over the next 12 to 15 months. So that's where you come in. I think when you think about where you want to work next, there's a couple questions that people seem to care about. One of them is culture. So I thought I'd touch really briefly on that. And I'm wearing this shirt that you can't see, but it says solve for the customer, which is our primary cultural value. And at the end of the day, the customer is placing their order on Instacart, getting the groceries delivered, is our North Star and we're very customer-focused company. That's something that matters a lot to us. And then as far as challenges and engineering problems and things that we need to work on, you throw a dart and you can hit one. The things that keep me up at night are numerous. And we have scaling problems. We're growing faster now than we were a year ago. We've actually doubled our growth rate in the last year, which is insane if you know that's like a completely magical experience. Our team is still pretty small. I think that individually, you can have a huge impact on the trajectory of the company. I think that you can have a huge impact on your own growth and your own learning, your own success. So I would say come join us. Come ask us questions about the rest of our cultural values and the things that we care about. Come ask us questions about the rest of our engineering challenges. We've got James over there who's on the catalog team and Michael who leads recruiting. And I'm also last. So thank you so much for your time and thank you for hearing us out.