 I'm Kat Mignolet. I'm a partner at Y Combinator and honestly one of my favorite parts, one of the best parts of working at Y Combinator is getting to work with the other partners. So I'm really pleased right now to invite them all on stage and we're going to have them answer a bunch of the questions that you sent in to the Startup School at Y Combinator email. So let's bring them on. They're telling me not to move the stools. All right. So I am going to start. I'm going to let everyone. So basically what we did was we got about 75 plus questions and we had to cull it down them down really fast. So we have time for about 10 of them. And so the first question actually is was, could you tell us about your role as a Y Combinator partner? So I'll have each of you guys answer that and introduce yourselves. You know, you've actually probably seen everyone on stage at this point, so I'll start. I started at YC as the director of outreach and part of, you know, one of the favorite, my favorite parts of the job is, and a huge part of it, is I get to travel around and I meet people every day who are working and building incredible things and really passionate about what they do. So that's, I think, like honestly one of the best parts of my job. And the other part is I help with a lot of the press launches at YC. So I really love the storytelling piece, helping craft a story around what everyone's doing, what the significance of what everyone does is. My name is Kasser. You guys can hear me? Okay. My name is Kasser. You guys can hear me? Okay. My name is Kasser. We did office hours. I think you see what we kind of do. I help startups through office hours and group and individual office hours basically build their company. My background is I'm an engineer, MBA, really straightforward. My name is Kirstie. I'm the financial and operational partner, I guess. Fy enw i yw Kirsty. Rwy'n y partner ariannol a phrofiadol. Rwy'n gweithio gyda'r start-ups i helpu gyda'u cwestiynau ariannol a'u cwestiynau fel, sut rydw i'n hyrwyddo fy ngyrch cyflog? Sut rydw i'n ei ddod o'i fuddsoddi? Felly rydw i'n helpu mwy â hyn yeah with strategy or product and I think the favorite part of my job is that Every day is different the questions. We get a different the the problems That's the startups have a different the the great things that happen to startups are different And so we wake up every day not knowing what's going to happen that day which makes life really exciting My name is Justin which makes life really exciting. My name is Justin. Before joining YC, I'd started a couple of startups, all funded by YC, three times actually, so I'm kind of the remedial student. I have the same job as Kassar, basically, working at advising and helping the startups. I think for me it's very exciting because it's always something new. I really like things that are new, and working with a lot of different companies is really fun for me it's very exciting because it's always something new. I really like things that are new and working with a lot of different companies is really fun for me. And I guess that's it. Pretty fun. So I'm Paul Buhite and I mainly just listen to people's ideas and then laugh at them. I can verify that. Yeah, only if that wasn't true, I would be laughing. I'm just there for my own amusement. I really, it sounds, I don't know how to put it, I like to be in the place where history is happening. And I think PG is a very clever guy. He has a real insight into history, and I think he's never said it, but I think he intentionally created this magnet for interesting people and interesting places. So I just like to go hang around there. I've actually been officially a partner since I left Facebook in 2010, but I had started hanging around YC, I think, 2006, as soon as they came out to Mountain View, just because there's crazy people like this that I could, like, talk to, and they would tell me their ideas, and I would laugh, and they wouldn't get offended, which actually turns out to be a good filter to the people with the thin skin. So, yeah, I basically just talk to founders. So we'll kick it off with the next question. So the next question, and something we've been seeing a lot on Twitter, is that if you're starting a company where the main market is in a specific geographic region, so, for example, if you're targeting UK customers, would you still suggest moving to the US, or would you suggest moving? I have a lot of thoughts on that and I could probably go on for hours, and I have in the past, but I really think that one of the advantages of California is even if you're going to start your startup, your market is somewhere else and you really want to continue your startup there, it's worth thinking about visiting California even if it's not through YC, even if you just come for a little while, because there's such a huge offline network effect in California around starting technology companies. There's people who can help you who have done it before, start companies with massive scale, the Googles and Facebooks. There's a huge amount of capital that goes into funding technology companies that doesn't really exist outside of Silicon Valley. So there's a huge amount of capital that goes into funding technology companies that doesn't really exist outside of Silicon Valley so there's there's a lot of reasons to go even if you're even if your customers are in another place and you should try to be close to your customers right you might move back and and start your startup or continue to start up in wherever your customers are but I think it's worth thinking about visiting California at some point. I was talking to some of the founders in between the breaks. And somebody said, oh, there's a lot of energy. You feel a lot of people here are interested in doing really interesting things. And I think that's just much more common in the Valley. My first startup was in Chicago. Chicago's a great city. It's built great technology companies., it just feels very different. When you go out and you tell somebody you're a founder, that's not, you know, that's not like a strange thing. They really understand what that means. And I think that somehow emotionally feels good when you feel like you're kind of part of the ecosystem, part of the community. And I think to bring it back to the UK as well, and the mentality, you know, the standard British mentality is, oh, that'll never work. Whereas the mentality over in California is, oh, that might just work. And so that's where you're starting from. You've got a different base point. Probably the most popular question we got, maybe 25 of the questions were, are you starting a Y Combinator in blank? So a lot of them obviously were the UK. Are you starting them in Italy? Are you going to Africa? Are you going to launch, you know, basically every country in the world, almost every country in the world was represented. So guys, are we starting Y Combinator in Europe? No. I think if we tried to start a program in every country, Kirstie would quickly get overwhelmed. But we would like to fund companies in many, many different countries. And we do. And we do. Last batch had 25. So yeah, this batch has founders that were born in 27 different countries. And the companies in this batch, there's 85 of them now. And nine of those companies were started outside the US. So there's founders from all over the world, companies companies were started outside the U.S. So there's, you know, founders from all over the world, companies that have started in multiple countries. It's, you know, it's definitely something we encourage. Yeah, I think, I mean, really what that question is asking is like, why Silicon Valley? And there, we were talking a little bit about this and there's kind of three things that exist in Silicon Valley, which are hard to replicate. First is just the talented technical talent. I mean, there are more engineers in probably a couple of buildings at Google than exist in entire states. And that is important when you're trying to build a technology company, you're trying to find co-founders, you're trying to find early team members. The second is the sophistication of the investors themselves. You know, very early stage, you have to see a lot of volume, you have to see patterns, you just have to be exposed to a level of company, a number of companies that you just won't see in other countries. You know, I'm from Pakistan. You're just, there's a lot of IT in Pakistan, but there isn't that volume that you see in the Bay Area. And the third is you have liquidity events. You have acquirers. The ecosystem is probably an order of magnitude larger than any other in the world. And that's probably an understatement. I mean, you can just drive down the 101 or drive down to it. You will see hundreds of technology companies. And so it's very tough to replicate that in another country, another environment. And so YC did start off actually in Boston. It didn't start off in California. It moved to California. So did start off actually in Boston. It didn't start off in California, it moved to California. So it's not a dig on other cities or other countries, but it's just that that current ecosystem exists and we want the best ecosystem to help you guys succeed. And I'd like to add, I think the really key thing is attitude towards risk. And it's very hard for people outside of the startup world to quite comprehend how crazy we are. And the reason is that it all works on a power law, right? Like I'll happily fund 100 stupid ideas if one of them turns out to be Google. And that approach to risk is not something you're going to get if you've been working in banking your whole life. Because if you're a banker, the thing you want to do is avoid losses. But I already assume that most of my investments are going to be losses. I'm just looking for maybe JustinTV will be a big thing, right? And that mindset is very hard for people to get into if they haven't really lived it themselves. So this might be a Kirstie specific question, but if you have a UK company, if you start a company in the UK, do they need to reincorporate to be part of YC? We do require that you are a US company for us to be able to invest. And that's not just for our convenience. As you can hear from all of us, we strongly believe that it makes sense to start a company in the US. And that's opening yourself up to many more investors who will only invest in US companies because of the difficulties in investing in foreign companies. So we want to get you set up in the best way possible for you to take the company forward. And we believe that that is being a US company. For companies that come to us, like Kat was saying, we have had rydyn ni'n credu bod hynny'n bodoli i'r cwmni. Mae'r cwmni wedi cael ei sefydlu mewn y ffordd gorau i chi i ddod i'r cyntaf. Rydyn ni'n credu bod hynny'n bodoli i'r cwmni Cymru. I'r cwmni sy'n dod i ni, fel y dywedodd Kat, mae gennym ni g of their company so that they can have a US parent company and then a subsidiary in the UK, or we've had a company from Turkey this time. And so we can help you figure out what the best structure is, how to deal with it. And we can do a lot of the work for you, but obviously, we don't know really anything about Turkish company law. So in situations like that, you do often need to get counsel from the country that you're moving from as well. But we do as much as we can to help. So this next question is probably one that I get the most often as I travel and meet founders. And they want to know, what is the most important quality that you look for in teams or founders? know what is the most important quality that you look for in teams or founders? Grit. Like just determination that you meet people that certain people, and it's not necessarily the smartest or not necessarily, you know, the coolest, the most social or whatever. It is people who are determined to do something. And if that case is building an early stage company, that's something that that's a person I really want to be you know with For me one of the questions. I'm always asking And it's very difficult to quantify this, but it's essentially Can they actually see a little bit of reality like do they have? Vision something that they're feeling at a visceral level, or are they just chasing after a trend? And we get this a lot of times where I'll ask someone, how do you know this is a good idea? And they'll say, well, there was a TechCrunch article about it. Like, to me, that's the opposite of evidence. So I want someone who's actually has experienced it for themselves. You know, like if it's a founder where they've actually had this problem, they're solving their own problem or it's just one of these crazy things where they have that gleam in their eye that they just think that there's something real there and they just genuinely know it at a visceral level. Because if you don't, I think you just give up. Like you really have to feel that this is a real problem that you're trying to solve because it's it's a tough road Yeah, and in particular again The way our business works is that all of the money is essentially made off of you know Really huge successes and the dream of course is yeah, you fund a Google or Facebook, but you never get there You don't become Facebook if you sell to Yahoo for a billion dollars, right? Not that a billion dollars is a bad thing but to have that kind of conviction necessary when you're, I don't know how old Zuck was, like 22 years old, and everyone in the world tells you, come on man, you're an idiot, you've got to sell your company to Yahoo. It's like just a little social network for college students. A billion dollars is a lot of money. And he says no, and then fires them all. That takes a special kind of madman. So the next question is how far along should a company be before applying to YC? So I think that people often think that we're on one end of the spectrum. I actually hear both. Either YC doesn't fund early stage companies anymore or YC doesn't fund companies that are as far along as I am. And the answer is that we actually fund companies at all different stages. Some companies have raised some money, a seed round, before they joined YC. And some companies just have an idea and a team and they don't really, they haven't, they haven't even really gotten their start yet. So we look for, you know, we really look for the people, like smart people who are dedicated to doing something. And that's, that's, I think, what we primarily consider and think about. Can you guys give two examples, like an example of a team that was really early stage and then a team that was a little bit further along and kind of talk a little bit about that, the differences? Probably one of the best examples of an early stage company is one of the most famous companies, Reddit. They actually applied with some kind of bad idea. I don't know what it was. It was called My Mobile Menu, or hmm. This was before the iPhone, so this was like the disastrous mobile ecosystem that existed back then. So they actually came in, and the idea of Reddit they worked on together with PG. So that's a very early stage example. An example of later stage in the current batch is a company called Carlypso, which helps you sell your car. And they had already raised the seed round and kind of had a small team when they came in this summer. Cool. All right. So what are your current thoughts on the solo founder? And then we'll start there. So as you've heard today, startups are tough and there's always a million and one things to do and time to do about five of them in a day. And so it's really hard to be a solo founder because you just can't do everything. You could do sales or you can build products or you can fundraise. Whereas if you're in a team, you can divide and conquer. So we really do think that being a solo founder is kind of just changing the probability for you slightly. That being said, we do fund solo founders. Yeah, we definitely fund them. It's just you have to be about four times as good. But actually, I think Instacart was a solo founder, right? And that's a great company. We're very happy to fund solo founders. It's just, it's really more for your benefit if you can possibly find someone. It really does help. But take that very seriously, finding somebody. Yeah, I mean, my personal view is it's's so so difficult to do all these things well alone because they're very different skills whether it's selling and building and selling are very very different skills. It's rare for one person to have that and it's just I mean honestly you know, I've done a couple startups, it's just more fun to have a crew. Like to have two or three people that you hang out with who are living with you and you just you know I remember distinctly one time we came back from a investor pitch and it just had not gone well and our third co-founder was you know sitting at home and so me and Mike got back and we said that was awful and he's like whatever and that like just having that perspective from that other co-founder was you know it's it's important it's really really tough to do it alone yeah I would say that like my company would never have survived if I didn't have my co-founders. Not just because I couldn't have created it, but also I wanted to quit every year. I remember, like, every single year. And, you know, startups are like, you know, people say it's a roller coaster. I think it's like a sine wave. And your emotional state, you know, goes up and down and up and down. And if you have too long of a protracted period of time when you're in the low state, then you just give up. But when you have co-founders, it's like you're combining multiple waves and it balances, you know, kind of your aggregate emotional state is not too long in that like low period. And so it's much less likely that you just kind of give up and die. period and so it's much less likely that you just kind of give up and die so while we're on the topic of founders um someone asked what are the biggest uh co-founder dispute issues that you've had to deal with um and that's that is one of the biggest things we see break up early stage startups are co-founder disputes so i'll let you guys so i think i mean having a co-founder relationship is like having a marriage. And it goes through good times and it goes through bad times and it's how you work things through. And in the same way that communication is key in a marriage, it's the same in a company. And so generally a lot of the disputes that we see amongst founders are because communications have broken down for one reason or another. And that could be that one founder is not as committed as the other. It could be that there's an imbalance of power between co-founders that are causing problems. I mean, there can be any number of reasons for it, but often it does come back down to communicating. And it's a pressurized environment doing a startup. And so everything is magnified, including your emotions. And so with co-founder disputes, the key thing is to talk about it early and not to let it fester and turn into this really irreparable relationship, which, you know, startups rarely recover from. One explanation that was given to me by a co-founder whose co-founder relationship fell apart was that a good test is if you could travel around the world for a few months together and, like, not end up hating each other. Because he had actually done that with his co-founder, and then they ended up hating each other for a while. But then they started a company anyway, and then ended up hating each other. Because he had actually done that with his co-founder and then they ended up hating each other for a while. But then they started a company anyway and then ended up hating each other. But it's the same sort of thing where you're on top of each other all the time, right? People are essentially living together, working together 24-7. There's a lot of very stressful issues. And so you have to be good at resolving your differences and not just hating the other person. Yeah, the opposite is one test that I had for Talkman, the YC company I founded, was my co-founder, Mike. I mean, I genuinely enjoyed seeing Mike and talking to him about companies and about startups. And it was great that we had complementary skills. That's kind of the ideal situation. In terms of what is difficult to do in a startup, getting the right co-founding team is one of the most difficult things. And if you get it wrong, it's kind of like the foundation of your house. It's going to be very hard to build on top of that. And it's part of the reason why we really emphasize the importance of equal equity. When we look for teams that have like an equal balance of equity, because that is part of, you know, what starts a number of co-founder disputes. It usually indicates people are in it together. Yeah, and it should be, right? I mean, one common thing you'll hear is, well, I had the idea, you know, I had the idea, so I deserve like 80% and he deserves 20%. That's nonsense. The main reason it's nonsense is most of the work is well ahead of you. So it's like, I just came up with something two weeks before you, and therefore, I deserve 10% more of the company, or 20% more of the company, is just not thinking about the relationship that is ahead of you, which is years. I mean, so one thing that you should remove from your mind is startups are short and easy. They're not. They're long, long. I'm talking about five years, seven years. And so that's a path ahead of you, and everyone's going to work just as hard. So you should share in that value. So YC did an experiment where at a certain point, we put out a note saying that we would take founders without an idea and so the question is what is your opinion on the no idea founder experiment so it was a great experiment and what we learned is that we're not going to do it anymore it turned out and I mean like I'm serious experiments are always worth trying even if they don't work. What we learned is that people who didn't have ideas would continue not having ideas. And it was a little bit counterintuitive, because the reason we got into it was we noticed that we accepted a lot of companies who would then, you know, partway through YC, change to a different idea, and they would do great. So we thought, well, why did we require the first idea? And it turns out, I think, that the first idea is an indication that they can come up with ideas. And so if they don't have a first idea, they may not have a second one or a third one. So the next question is, how do you turn down or say no to applicants after they've interviewed with you? Well, after we actually do send out a message and we describe why we didn't fund. It is, I mean, being on both sides of the YC table, we actually put a lot of effort into it. It is not a not a you know trivial thing that we just copy and paste some form rejection and it's often after a very long day of interviews and I I was very proud that the that the partners spend that much time to give honest reasons because if you don't get that honest feedback and it's just like oh we're not interested in that market or you know some generic kind of VC talk, that's pretty terrible because you came out to interview and took time out of your life to talk to us. So, yeah, that's specifically what we do. We actually send an email with the reasons why we didn't fund. And actually the thing that I like the most is a lot of founders will actually take the feedback they got from the interview and actually take it to heart. Like we'll tell them you don't have any customers and they'll go get customers and then they'll reapply. And we have in every batch quite a few startups that we had previously rejected. And oftentimes they end up at or near the top of the batch. So rejection is by no means a bad thing. It's a temporary thing. And again, people who are able to take that advice, incorporate it, and move forward, that's actually a really strong signal of a good founder. MALE SPEAKER 1:" Drew from Dropbox is actually someone who had been rejected and then reapplied, thankfully. MALE SPEAKER 2:" Yeah, just think about that. That's amazing. MALE SPEAKER amazing. So Drew was rejected. And it's a good thing, too, by the way. His original idea was SAT test prep. So we actually believe it's harmful to accept people sometimes with the wrong idea or the wrong team. He may have worked on that dumb idea for years and then never started Dropbox. And I think people, there seems to be a myth out there that applying to YC is a one-time only chance. And like everybody has said, it's not. We do welcome repeat applications. And so we take it very seriously what we are telling people. But the other thing that we hear from founders who have been rejected and then go on to reapply or maybe don't go on to reapply Y peth arall rydym yn clywed gan ffynwyr sydd wedi cael eu hwynebu ac wedyn mynd i ddatblygu arall, neu efallai nad ydyn nhw'n mynd i ddatblygu arall, yw eu bod nhw'n gweld y broses o ddatblygu a chyflawni y fform y gwasanaeth a chyflawni'r cwestiynau yn ffordd ddiddorol ia You know, the conclusion in all of this is you have nothing to lose from putting in an application and everything to gain. You will be learning something. You may get accepted. You may be getting some really useful feedback that you can action on. So you should do it. Yeah, and even if you don't submit it, it's actually great to do the application. Even if you're a current idea and then you're funded and YC is not, it's actually great. Those questions are structured in a way to help you think about your company. I find it pretty useful in itself. We actually even had one company that somehow managed to raise money off of the rejection email. And then we funded them for the next batch. And with some of those kind of co-founder relationships, there's questions in there about the equity split and the cap table, so if you haven't yet had that conversation with your co-founders, it's kind of a catalyst to do so. You kind of have to figure out those issues before you can turn in the application. So, yes. And then the next question is, how is the first round or how did the first round of nonprofit startups in YC go? So for those of you that don't know, we funded last batch a group of nonprofits. And then a year ago, we funded WotC, which was our first nonprofit. And again, it was another experiment. I think the answer is that it's too early to tell. With any company, with any startup, probably a year is not long enough to pick out the real winners. So I guess watch this space and see. I would say that we're interested in continuing to fund nonprofits and would encourage any of you guys out there who are interested in starting a nonprofit or have friends who are interested to apply and reach out to us. So I might break the question here. Why do you fund nonprofits? Some people might be thinking that. Well we don't fund them for a start. We donate to them. So in a way it's our way of giving back to the world. So it's our way of helping the world. And we look for a specific type of nonprofit as well that we feel will have a really big impact. So I think the root of the idea was that we realized that nonprofits actually hit a lot of the same issues as the for-profits. And particularly the ones we're looking for are ones that are very scalable. So we're probably not going to fund like the local soup kitchen, but something like Watsi essentially does all the same things that our regular companies do. They have to acquire users. They have a website. They, they, the only difference is that they're a nonprofit instead of a for-profit. Um, and it's actually turned out to be really great having them there. I think, um, they gained a lot and then I actually thought it just brings like a nice energy and dynamic to the batch. They're great to have. I think they benefit the for-profit companies as well. Cool. Okay, I really like this question. It was, why is it that all the YC founders seem to sleep on the floor in tiny apartments? Someone who's done that. It's like practical to live together. I mean, it's one of the pieces of advice I got before YC is to live with your co-founders if that's possible. It was hugely beneficial for our company because when you're just around each other all the time and the point that you genuinely enjoy being around each other, I think like everything that we did, we were like just talking about company, and to echo what's been said throughout the day, the most productive kind of time in my life, because you're just around people all the time. And it's not work. I guess it never felt to me like work. It felt like, I don't know, another experience that is not work. I think one of the things that we look for is people who are frugal with their resources and really make good use of the resources they have. And that starts when you don't have any money in the early days. And that's something that carries on in the DNA of your company as you move forward. When we started Justin.TV, my co-founder, Michael, was sleeping on the balcony, actually, because we didn't have any room for him. So it was pretty, you know, we were doing it on a budget, but it was good for us because we were able to survive this major economic downturn a couple years later off of not very much capital raised. Because we had kind of like every dollar that we had, we watched pretty carefully. It's funny to hear the story, but when you're actually doing it, it's not that fun. So I think it's something about also like to reflect back or something because it is tough. I mean, who, you know, when you're grown up, why do you want to live with like two or three other people in a very small place? Because it's practical, it's cheaper, et cetera. So I think we probably have time for one more, but so maybe to wrap it up what is your you know the one best piece of advice you could give to people who are looking to start a startup or apply to YC so do it now I think I was talking to some founders earlier if you're like 30 you have something like 400 months left in your life let that sink in for a bit yeah if you're in your 20s, you can do the calculation. And what's so striking about that concept, that 400 months or whatever, is that it's very tangible. I think you just say thousands of days or weeks or whatever. It's very hard to understand. That's a real number that is counting down every single month. And you don't get that time back no matter who you are so like take action just don't and and what that means more practically because you hear that generic advice all the time for me what it meant in my life was I was working at a company and I saved money and I saved money specifically so I could get a year's runway if I didn't get funded and about six months in I got funded to YC you know that was great. But you have to take practical steps to see that. If you don't do it, it's not going to happen. And don't lie to yourself. Just stop thinking about startups and go do something else. I think my piece of advice would be that startups aren't for everyone. It takes a very specific type of person to be able to deal with the things that come with being a startup founder, sleeping on people's floors and the pressures and everything else. And, you know, it's not for everyone. And if it's not for you, then that's fine too. And you need to make that decision and you need to decide if it's the right thing for you to do. One piece of advice that I always give people is don't give up. One of the things that we, I was with one of my co-founders and we were reminiscing. When we started from YC for Justin TV, we lived in this building with all of these different startups, early startups like Scribd and Dropbox and Discuss and Weebly. And my co-founder was saying, man, we knew a lot of really smart like people back then. They're all successful now. Like all those companies are worth like eight or, you know, nine or 10 figures. And I was like, no, they weren't that smart. They just like stuck around because the fact is that the internet is like a huge growth market, right? Things that were even sort of a very small niche market in 2007, grew up to be very big companies because more and more people came online and became their customers. And so just by surviving, there's so many companies out there that I knew seven years ago, and just by surviving, even though they'd made no money for the first two or three or four years, eventually it turned into a big market. And so the only way you can get there is by not quitting, even though all evidence might point to you wasting your time. I think my one bit of advice is make sure you're in contact with reality. I see a lot of these startups where they've been working on it for a long time and I'll say, like, how many users do you have? And they say, well, it's not ready yet. I think that's terrible. Or like, how many customers do you have? They don't have any customers. They're building the product still. Like you should never build something until you have customers or users or something. Get the customer first, sell them. You know, if it's something in your cell, sell the product and then you build it. Don't do it the other way around. Otherwise you might build it and then no one wants it. And if it's a consumer thing, still you can have a user, have a handful of users that you can really focus in on. And it's always remarkable how small and how really honestly crappy of a product you can give someone and get some kind of information out of them. Like for Gmail, for myself, I tried to build the first version in a day. And it just, the only thing it did was search over my email, but I still released it to other people. And the first feedback was just, you know, it's useful, but it would be better if it searched over their email instead of mine. And so, like, I had real user feedback. And I just iterated every single day. I would go talk to users and see what it would take. And the goal for quite a while was to get 100 happy users inside of Google. So I would go to each person and I would say, what is it going to take to make you a happy user? Because I actually had a list. And they would tell me. And some of them, I'm like, might know that's too hard and then I go to someone else and it might be something easy and just working one person at a time it's very unscalable but but at an early stage that's what you have to do otherwise you can just be off floating in outer space building something that nobody will ever want all right so we are you know there were so many good questions that were asked and we didn't have time to answer all of them, but what we're going to do is we're going to look through those questions and try to answer more and we'll release a blog post. So hopefully we'll get to your question if we didn't, you know, answer it or address it on stage. But also we're going to be around for, you know, the next couple hours and at the reception. So please feel free to chat with us and ask us your questions face to face. We'd love to hear from you. So thank you. That was good.