 Hi, welcome Reshma and Jason and everybody on the call. Hi. My gosh, I am so excited to chat with the two of you, pioneers in the field of synthetic biology. So to kick us off, the audience today is going to be a mix of people with a tech background and a bio background. Can you tell us a little bit about what Ginkgo does? Sure. Yeah, I can do it. Yeah. So I'll say it from the tech lens and then from the bio lens. So from the tech lens, you can think of us kind of like Amazon Web Services, right? Big, you can think of us kind of like Amazon Web Services, right? Big centralized facilities that can be accessed as a service so that you can bring your product to market more easily. Right. In our case, instead of a giant data center like Amazon, it's a highly automated lab here in Boston, right? So about, you know, in this building, we're in here about 250,000 square feet of highly automated labs that you could if you want to start a new company and not build out a bio lab you could essentially leverage our infrastructure to do your your cell engineering okay so that's the tech side if you're a bio person in biopharma there are organizations called contract research organizations cro's where people outsource certain types of research traditionally Traditionally, biopharma outsource like an animal study or making a small molecule chemistry to like Wuxi or to Charles River. It's kind of like work they don't want to do, basically. It's kind of like standardized work that it's just like, I'd rather someone else did this. Our argument to these biopharma companies is because of our automation and scale, we can do things that they can't do in-house. So they should actually outsource to us to get access to a scale that isn't available in their internal labs. So that's sort of the tech and the bio. But either way, the idea is outsource services, a platform business model like you would see in a lot of tech companies to enable other people's products. Fantastic. Thank you. And what year did the two of you get started and what's the current state of the company? So we got started in 2008. We were virtual for the first year and then managed to open our first lab in 2009 um and bootstrapped for several years um with no outside funding whatsoever until actually our first outside money in was basically part of my calculator yeah yeah yeah we were a little bit weird it was like six i mean we were summer 14. yeah uh class of yc but had been bootstrapping the company for five years before that which is like buying equipment on ebay like moving into the cheapest part of boston like building getting getting some guys from south boston to put in some plumbing into an office space it was it was not uh it was not the you know a lot of biotech start fancy uh that was not the start of kango bioworks i would say um but yeah but i think that served as well actually now as we have a lot of biotech start fancy. That was not the start of Ginkgo BioWorks, I would say. But yeah, I think that served as well, actually, now as we have a lot more capital. It did, yeah, yeah. It bakes frugality into your culture from the get-go that is even 15 years later is still there. We still don't like to spend money, unless it's been the reason, yeah. Scrappiness and resourcefulness, such important lessons for all of the aspiring founders on the call today. And so take us back. A lot of folks who are wanting to start companies, one of the first things they do is they look for a co-founder. And the two of you have had such a successful co-founder relationship for such a long time now. Tell us a little bit about how the two of you met and how did you guys know you wanted to work together? So Ginkgo actually has five founders. You only get two of the five on this one. That's one of the reasons we work so well together. The first thing is we want to point out that there's five of us. Yeah. And we all met at MIT. So four of us were graduate students there. And then my PhD advisor is the fifth founder. And we actually showed up slightly different years at MIT, but all kind of fell in love with what was just getting going as a new academic discipline, synthetic biology. And so that's kind of how we all met and started working together. we'll tell you about about like what's in bio is in a minute but but uh i would say in terms of starting a company with your thesis advisor so like why why see obviously sees a lot of companies getting started the tech industry where it's all just you know straight out undergrad like you know whatever boot up a website, boot up an app. I think for these sorts of hard technology or deep technology or real technology, as I would call it, companies frequently are going to have a scientist, PhD advisor in the mix. The technology is coming out of a lab or something like that. first advisor in the mix, right? Like the technology is coming out of a lab or something like that. And one of the things I would advise folks to think about is can you get your thesis advisor to leave the university and join your company full time? That is a true signal. Did you do that successfully? Indeed. Yeah, man. Tom left MIT and is still at the company today. I mean, that's hard to do, to pull people out of academia like that. So any tips? Because a lot of my bio founders are facing this right now, actively facing this. Yeah. I mean, my main view on it would be, I think it is hard, right? So A, I think if you're like a venture capitalist and you see that happen, it's actually a really great underappreciated signal of a company. That's a big deal. Right. Cause those are like, you know, it's a big deal to leave an academic spot. It's like, it's a big deal. It's a real thing. But, but if they don't, which is most common, the bigger issue is like, not really a founder, you know? Right. So I think there's a weird dynamic that happens in the biopharma space where you have these people who are like, I'm the founder of 27 companies because I'm such and such professor. That's not like, it's not founder, it's like Y Combinator would think of founder. It shouldn't be equity by any stretch of the imagination. Unless they're leaving, if you want to really build a company when the Y Combinator model, like a Google scale company with founder-led leadership that is like not messing around, you don't want to waste that equity and also like moral authority on someone that's not joining the company full time. So it's great to have a new advisor that you get something, but it's just different. Yeah, it's completely different. I can't tell you how many applications we get at the YC bio program where there's a professor that has 30% of the company. And then the founders asked me to get on a call with them with this mucky muck and say, well, can you negotiate them down? We don't want to, you know, so awkward because like, you know, you might not have graduated yet so they may be in control whether your PhD thesis goes through or not you know so it is like very challenging but yeah if you're spending your whole like if you're working full-time in the company and they're not that's just a very different level of investment of you know life energy so yeah it's in the interest it's even in their interest to be honest because like again i think yc got blessed this is what you you all like really were i mean remember we were we're old right like like like we started gingo you know in 2008 okay right and like there there wasn't even good, like founder, um, forward content on the internet. There was, there was a, there was a blog called, um, venture hacks that like, uh, what's his name? You know, now who ended up doing angel list, like was writing. And that was like one oasis in the desert. And the other one was like Paul's essays. And like, we were like voraciously reading these things because everybody else we talked to, it was all completely VC-centric advice. And so I think the model that Y Combinator pioneered, a big part of it is understanding the power of founder-led companies where there's real ownership and then that lets it run. How do you want to get a Microsoft or a Google? You can't just hire in like a professional CEO from the VC firm. That's how you get Microsofts and Googles. Like it just doesn't work, right? And so you just admit it, right? So if you're a professor, you actually want that equity to be worth something, give it to your students, you know, right? And take a much smaller piece like that or leave and join full-time right like otherwise or just hold it back yeah i i couldn't agree more with that i um have been entangled in several of those very fun discussions so i so i want to stop all the time it's like they just they don't see the like people are very short-term minded right yeah they're like well obviously the percent is bigger than y percent you're like yeah but there obviously the next percent is bigger than Y percent. You're like, yeah, but there's like eight fall on effects to you making that decision. Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. So speaking of founder-led companies, do you think that looks different for bio companies versus tech companies? companies. We're sort of fighting this ingrained culture of very quickly replacing the founding team, right? With so-and-so, you know, professional CSOs or CEOs and that sort of thing. Yeah, I think biotech VCs historically have this kind of tradition of like finding a technology in a lab. You do probably take the best students and postdocs from that lab and get them started, but then you pretty quickly bring in professional management in over them. And part of the reason they can do that is because like they're the first money in, they probably own like 30, 40, 50% of the company. And so they do have like their ton of control, right? And so, but I think if you can flip that model where like, if you can bootstrap a little while, right, or, you know, get creative about your early funding, and rely on non dilutive funding, that gives you a little bit more flex to, like avoid that model and actually have the founders like stay in control. And then you have to kind of do the typical thing of like being on a very steep learning curve as a founder to kind of build the skills you need to run the company yourself right you don't get it by Fiat you get it because you've earned it but um but uh you know uh YC has been sort of helping to like move the needle on that um hasn't happened quite as quickly as it has a tech but i think it is moving in that direction and yeah i hope so yeah um two two things of that one general and one self-serving uh so so uh you know great rage would find out like that bootstrapping thing right like so gingko's you know the first 10 million or so dollars in the gig was grants right we started the company in 2008. we were coming straight out of school which like we were the first yc biotech company now it's more common and then like back when we were there was very few like um uh straight out of grad school founders and so we couldn't have raised venture capital we wanted to right right consequence 100 like the reason we actually by the time we raised money, we had already created a lot of the value, a lot more leverage in those negotiations. And so we were able to not have that situation where, well, in order to start this company, it's going to cost $10 million. I'm not going to give you $10 million for a small percentage of a brand new company. It's too much money, right? So it's really the starting costs of a biotech that are part of the problem. And I think it's no surprise that like YC came into its own right alongside like cloud computing infrastructure and internet, because it dropped the cost of starting companies, right? And app stores and the whole thing, like all the costs for doing web fell. And so suddenly there wasn't a gatekeeper who had to give you 10 million dollars to start your internet company you could start it like you know on the first yc deals were like what what they give probably like 35 000 or something like it was like and so like that that was part of why like you've even had a shot because otherwise the gatekeepers were like well no you know right like i'm just not gonna allow it and you had and you needed the money to start an internet company so now the self-serving half if you are starting a syn bio company i recommend you use ginkgo's infrastructure okay it will make it much less expensive to launch the company like we're really trying to i think this is one of the reasons you don't see founder-led biotech as much. It's just the upfront costs are too expensive. So everyone who has managed to pull that off has gone through some crazy scraping and blah, blah, blah on the eBay and the, you know, like it's brutal, right? It's just expensive to start a lab. Yeah. And the last couple of batches, it's felt very different for me funding companies with 500,000 each versus 125,000. You know, of course, it makes a difference if you're a tech company, but especially if you're in our space, that incremental increase means a lot, right? So going back to your fundraising journey a little bit, I love the founding story of Ginkgo, of bootstrapping, finding YC, and then doing two sizable rounds in close succession to one another, right? So first, after bootstrapping for a while, how did you decide to join YC? What was the thought process there? And then what was it like fundraising after that point? So Sam Altman had wrote a blog post that was like, I think YC should, it's good. Yeah, I'm going to have YC fund things that aren't software companies. Okay. And I just wrote Sam. I was like, I didn't know him from Adam. I was like, oh, you know, thank you. Like, I'm like, Ginkgo is like, you know, like we've been around for five years. We're based in Boston. We got like 20 people in a lab out here it wouldn't make sense for yc but like thank you so much for just like being willing to to like apply like to like someone else to fund bio that isn't like trying to develop a therapeutic right like you know like just that it was like water in a desert you know uh and he was like oh you could do what you know you could do ycf sam he's like good at selling right he desert, you know? And he was like, Oh, you could do Y, you know, you could do YCF, Sam. He's like good at selling, right? He's like, you know, you should do, you could do it. Like, come out, come out and meet me, you know? Right. And so like, we went out and met Sam. And then after that, I was like, yeah, we'll do it. Yeah. So that was it. That's how we ended up at YCF. that's awesome that's such a great thing for early founders to hear because i think sometimes when you put things like that out in the universe like just to thank you that's what it takes to unlock the power of serendipity right you just never know in the early days what conversation is going to lead to what outcome it's pretty amazing yeah i agree with that the other thing i would say is like um especially when it's like things you just like believe in, right, like I think a lot of what's worked over the years for us has been like, you know, like back when we were at MIT, it was like the beginnings of this field of synthetic biology, which you can think of a little bit like DNA as digital code, and why don't we bring in some of like the theories of like, you know, computer science and engineering more directly into biology rather than starting with the biology, right? Like start with the code and then see what can apply to the biology rather than understand how a cell works and work backwards. Right. And so, so we, you know, we just believe, you know, like Tom and Drew, like, you know, Drendy was my boss. Like, like they really like inspired us to care about this. And then like that, a lot of Ginkgo success has been just like making authentic bets on that. Like, yeah, we hired like in terms of like, like decisions, but business model, the company, like investors, we brought it like it was really, like, if you really authentically believe in it, like, just don't be afraid. Like, like, you know, I think it helps you take risks. Yeah, because you're like, Oh, oh I'm gonna do this because I believe it's the right thing to do and you know it's the path forward and so your risk tolerance is sort of different because you're just like well this is what I believe and so I'm gonna go after that and you know whereas if you were trying to like build a financial model to justify the decision you like might never do it. Right. Yeah. Because I mean, there's so many hurdles as an entrepreneur that unless you genuinely authentically believe in what you're doing, you're going to stop at some point. Right. And you just got to have like a certain degree of like perseverance slash fortitude. And so believing what you're doing massively makes that easier. We're like, we're like, oh, well well we couldn't live with ourselves if we didn't like make this bed right like you know like like like yeah you like down synthetic biology you know like like that's like that's ridiculous but like that's what it felt like you know like we're like oh i'm gonna go through feeling good i'm like you're so disappointed in us yeah it's like i can't see myself doing anything else this is what i'm meant to be doing a lot of risk right like we remember like the other thing that was brutal making the jump to taking venture money it was like i mean we had just like scraped for a long time right so so like there was a lot of sweat equity in this thing and then it was kind of like we take all this money and now you're making bets we're like if if it's wrong you're like you're so far over your skis it's like oh my gosh man i'm just like man you know the last six years were like like like you know like a lot you know like you're applying for grants you don't you're gonna get the money you're like trying to keep employees they don't really want to stay you know like it's tough right like that so so we really felt like we had like a lot on the line you know and i agree with grace but like without like really feeling like you were doing it for some other reason you never want to make you would have been too risk averse yeah so what did it feel like to make that transition from going from being bootstrapped to then raising oversubscribed rounds and you know two rounds in one year, right? Or very close together? Yeah, I just did the fundraising. Rachel did the money spending. So what was it like? What did you think changed about that culture? Well, what I think was an interesting transformation the company went through is like, yeah, we had bootstrapped for so long, right? So the employees who had joined us, they just kind of joined us on faith, I think, on some level, right? Like, they were like, on some level, just bought into like, hey, let's give this thing a whirl too. And then like, we raised all this money. And all of a sudden, there's this opportunity to kind of build and invest in things that like, we just didn't have the cash to do so previously. Right. And so it was like we were like talking about like oh like we were 20 people okay we're gonna be 40 people by the end of the year and like there were people were like no freaking way like we don't even know how to scale like we like we've been hiring like one person a year you know one person twice a year one person a year i love it like yeah like we've been just growing so organically and slowly that people like didn't think we could switch into like a faster pace of doing things, right? They were just like, it's impossible. Like we don't have the muscle. Yeah. Right? And so like. Or afraid of the cultural change it would create. Yeah. Or yeah. Oh, yeah. Totally afraid. Like what is this going to do to us? Like how are we going to be a different company and and like but what was cool was for all the people who were there at that time they saw this like I thought this thing was impossible but then we went and did it and so that like completely opened their minds to like the possibilities of like tackling the impossible right because like again at some point you have to like kind of believe like hey I can build this muscle I can like leap off this cliff and build the plane on the way down. Right. Um, and then we will start flying. And so that like going from like, you know, having a scientist or an engineer declare something impossible and then the U as an organization pull it off and then you're like, oh, wow. Like I, like I was wrong about that. And so then all of a sudden those are, you know, some of the folks who are still here today who are like willing to make the biggest leaps because they went through this incredible transformation of like thinking we couldn't do something and then we did it. Right. Yeah. And I think it's extra hard when it comes to like, um, like for, again, I'll say for like deep tech or real tech, you know? And what I mean by this is like, I love that. Yeah. Like real tech. Yeah. You're like real company. You build actual things. No, no, no, no, no. I'm serious. I'll be more efficient than that to Silicon Valley. But like, I would argue that like, and this is starting to change, like I think some of the stuff that like, I like what Sam's doing with OpenAI, some of that. But there was a window where the bulk of what Silicon Valley was doing was taking market risk. Will grown adults ride scooters? That's market risk. Can you build a scooter network run by your boss? Of course. It's just spend the money, hire the engineers, get the scooter network. There's There's no technical risk, it's not Intel, okay? Right? Like, you know, they will lose them. They will throw them into the ocean. All marketers, right? Whereas, oh, you're going to develop an Alzheimer's drug? Zero market risk, all technical risk. Right. Okay. Right. You might try your best, you're not making it and you just might fail because it is scientific and technical risk that is real tech okay like real technology it has risk okay right like you know you're calling yourself tech as you use software but no there's no risk embedded in it okay you're just you're actually just a marketer effectively right you're a product developer and that became the culture of silicon valley and And so, you know, I would argue that all these companies that are building real tech, they have to have good scientists and engineers. You know what makes a good scientist and engineer? Raging skeptic, raging skeptic, okay? And so you have this, which is not the case for product, right? Great product, they're like, you know, they're visionaries, they're dreamers, right? But that is not what makes a good drug developer, okay? Right? Like, a good drug developer is big time skeptic. And so, that actually runs in. So, how do you balance those two things in terms of, like, building the culture at Ginkgo? Like, having that people side and having that dreamer side and having that business side, and now you guys are publicly traded. So, there's the street side of it, you know? Yeah, no, it's incredibly hard because you're basically trying to establish an unstable equilibrium where you want to maintain that skepticism, right? Because that's how you do rigorous, like top shelf science and engineering. But you also want to have ambition and to have that dream because that's how you achieve more than you technically think is possible, right? And so trying to maintain that unstable equilibrium between those two very stable states is very challenging. Yeah, and what it requires is energy. Like you need to constantly be protecting that. And like Rachel gave one good example earlier, really high caliber skeptical scientists and engineers who have been through the experience of doing something that they personally thought was technically unlikely and then having it be successful flips a switch so that's one of the tricks that's one of the tricks another one is mission like do they get less and less skeptical as they keep beating their own skepticism you know what what does that evolution look like they just get more excited to work on hard things. They get better taste. They get better taste. So, so, so, cause the trick is like, like you don't want to lose your skepticism. That's, that's, that's, that's how you end up with junk science and junk tech, you know, like, like all that, all the, all those stories you don't even want to hear. Right. Like, so, so the, the, right. Okay. Like you want better taste. Right. Okay. So that's what, that's what they're building. Right. I would argue. Yeah. Okay. So you only, and you only do it by being in places that are actually taking tasteful risk. So you see, you don't just feel what it looks like. Okay. But you can easily be in a place that takes no risk and you can easily be in a place that takes no risk. And you can easily be in a place that takes tasteless risk. Right. Right. To those companies. So those are your two easy ones. And the hard one is building a culture of having good taste when it comes to that kind of technical risk. Okay. So it sounds like you guys had an amazing culture going sort of early on. Co-founders that really believed in each other. An influx of cash. But something else you had was customers, right? And a lot of the early stage companies on the phone right now, that's something that they're struggling with. That's their day-to-day. How did you find your earliest customers? How did you convince them to take a risk on you? to take a risk on you that is a good question uh yeah yeah yeah uh okay um i think one thing was not um not being picky you know right like so so like we you know we went out and um and i like i think this is true across like again i'll i'll generalize us into like real tech right like you know boom aerospace right like they were a batch or two after us you know they did some deal with like richard brant's it's like some deal right like you know like something right some it's kind of like show something right like get somebody to bite because investors who are are going to have a hard time which is like they I think, just as a function of real technology, there will not be an investor who understands your technology better than you. So they're going to look for some other evidence. And I think customers is the best one, but there's other things you can pull off, too. And for us, we went to industries that were less biotech industries. We went into fragrances. And it was because we could We went into fragrances, right? You know, and it was because we could get customers in fragrances. Like we're fundamentally asking a company to outsource their research to us. Right. In the fragrance industry, they weren't good at biotech. They were good at chemistry, but they weren't good at biotech. And so we could get customers there. Now we knew the budgets were way bigger in biopharma and that's where like the majority of our new you know more of our new deals are coming from now we never would have been able to get a biopharma customer in 2014 we're doing yc zero chance like we weren't good enough yet right but we can bootstrap you know we can start to spin the flywheel in some of these other industries starting with fragrances and animal feed and then now you know now we walk into the best biopharma labs in the country and like they see leverage from what we have relative to what they have. But that, you know, that took 10 years. You know, so we started not being by not looking for the hardest customers to get. OK, so so first look for the right customers and don't be picky. Even the even the fragments. Right. Yes. The easiest. Right. Because it's a journey. Right? Like it's a journey. Well, no, this is an important point because I think sometimes like I talk to like founders and they're like, I don't know if I should do this deal because of, eh, they won't pass X or IP terms or this or that. And I'm like, your failure mode is not like doing the deal and the company stealing your IP. That's what people are usually afraid of. I'm like, your favorite mode is that nobody will buy what you are making. That is the favorite mode of every startup, right? Nobody actually cares to spend money on what you do. Right. So I think there is something where sometimes people are a little too like paranoid or picky about their first deal. Yeah. Because they worry that they're going to kind of give away. like paranoid or picky about their first deal. Because they worry that they're gonna get a giveaway. Yeah, they'll look bad. Also, that's another one. Right? Like, I love these, like, I'm really like, I'm so friends with these people, right? Like, like, they made like an incredible bet on us, right? The but like, there aren't the there aren't like the famous pharma companies, right? So like, if you were just thinking, thinking like what's the thing that looks the best right to an investor it wouldn't have been that but it was like a deal we could get with good people who were smart you know like but and and we added we had something to offer right like and it worked right and so i think that's the other thing is like people don't think about the little steps you can take okay they think about oh i gotta build like the prototype boom airplane not true actually the first thing you can do is just get a deal like just something like there's anything to talk about right like you know and then later you'll raise money and you'll build the prototype and then you'll do the next thing and like so you gotta you know you gotta lever up i completely agree i see um founders shoot themselves in the foot all the time when they're too focused on brand names brand name customers brand named investors like no just start somewhere right yes so once you do that was embarrassingly scrappy right and this reflects on us to this day we still like don't get like like you know we have a giant like a chip like the size of a boulder on our shoulders uh you know at all times but like like that you know it's like we don't get the respect you know right like the size of a boulder on our shoulders, you know, at all times. But like, like that, you know, it's like, we don't get no respect, you know, right. Like, you know, like the science, the engineering here is cool, but like we did it all in a weird way. Right. We didn't go straight to the, to like the highest profile names and the high. And so like, people still give us crap about it. They still give you crap about it. Oh yeah They still give you crap about it. Oh, yeah. Yeah, of course. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. All right. Well, so what was that transition like? I'm excited. I'm talking now. Yeah, I feel like maybe offline. We're really good. We live to serve, right? We just want to serve all these industries. Anyway know? I'm like, it's funny. Anyway, we get there. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And what did it feel like to take this company that you had bootstrapped, raised money for, found a team, public? You know, a lot of founders dream of that moment and then afterwards can be less dreamy but anyway what was what was what was it like for you what was um obviously like honestly i wasn't sure like what to expect going into it like you know um but uh it was pretty cool i think it was it was pretty cool like um like we brought the whole company out to like the new york stock exchange and we you know there were like you know friends who came out and like those first customers were there oh that's amazing that you brought your first customers yeah like advisors who's been with us for years came out yeah i brought kids and families you know um and so like yeah like all kind of coming together as a community and just celebrating how far we've come was actually pretty amazing. And definitely recommend the New York Stock Exchange if you're going to go public. Yeah, it's cool. It's good pomp. Yeah. It's cooler than NASDAQ. It's cooler than NASDAQ. A lot of history. It was cool. But I think it was a good, yeah. You don't step back that often, I think, is realistic. Yeah, because you're just going on and going on to the next thing, focus on the next problem. And so to take a moment in time and like kind of celebrate collectively about like how far we'd all come together. Yeah, that was good. Yeah, it must have been an incredible moment, especially because you included everybody from sort of every facet of the early days, right? Oh, yeah. It was a lot of, it was great. Yeah, and then like, you know, being public is, I like it, you know, I think one of the things we've always faced at Ginkgo is like, again, because we didn't come out of traditional biotech world like like those either didn't know about us or like a lot of people didn't know about us is the short answer and you're running a services business like it sure helps if people know you exist you know right and so so your profile just goes way way up right like you just way more people know about you it's really hugely helpful for sales and everything else. And we've seen that. So I think it's generally really healthy for the business. But yeah, you just a lot more noise, but it's healthy. Fantastic. Fantastic. So before we open the floor to questions, I thought that we would spend some time just talking about the field of synthetic biology more broadly and what you think the future of synthetic biology is, kind of what you're most excited about? Yeah, yeah, great question. I'll be honest, I don't get this question very often. I'll say what it is while you think about the future. Okay. Okay. All right. So the, okay. So like, what is synthetic biology? This is another one where like, okay. So like the core idea, again, speaking to like a tech and a bio audience is that DNA is digital code. Okay. Right. And you can read it with DNA sequencing, like genomics, human genome project, all that. And then importantly, you can write it with DNA synthesis, DNA printing, which like, again, to a non, like biologists are like, yeah, DNA synthesis, ATC, gggg in your computer, hit print. And then like a custom piece of DNA comes out. I mean, like, it's amazing, right? Like, like that is like just amazing. And like, and it is totally lost on people that most objects around you do not run on code. Okay. Right. Like the chair you're sitting in does not run on code. Right. The only two things in that room that are running on code is the computer in front of you and you. Okay. Right. Like, like it is wild that inside of every cell, how their nature is like invented the same mechanism to information transfer with high fidelity that we did right like it didn't go analog it went digital like that's that's wild right and so the but the difference is with these cells we didn't invent them so like we don't really understand how they work at a level of each individual piece but boy we can read and write and we can measure them and so the whole theory of synthetic biology was if you can read and write code and you have something that'll run it, that's programming. So like, okay, like, can you bring in the theory of programming? You know, can you bring in some of these engineering theories into what predict, what really was a, a field started by the biologists and the answer to that is like some things and some things not. So I'm kind of curious, like, you know, what, what relates, you know, but that's the idea. That's the idea about synbio. So it's fundamentally a tools revolution, right? It isn't, some people get confused. They think it's like applying bio outside of biopharma. You know, it's like, you know, like, oh, like making renewable nylon is synbio. No,. That's industrial biotechnology. In fact, that's been going on for 40 years, right? Like the making enzymes for laundry detergent. That got started at the dawn of biotechnology. Genentech started working on that, actually, right? No, no, no. Okay. No, it is a tools revolution that makes it easier to apply biotechnology across all markets. That's what syn symbio is um it's pretty amazing how far the tools come right like i mean like early on we would always just talk about sequencing because it was the obvious one that was getting way way better every year and then we started talking about synthesis um like dna synthesis so writing code that's obviously gotten a lot better over the years but now it's like every part of the cycle has gotten better. So CRISPR-Cas monthly made it way easier to edit genomes, right? Which was a bottleneck for a long time. But now you can like, you know, for most organisms, you can just go in and edit the genome now. Right. Which was like not a given when we started. Right. Amazing. And then, then okay now i can actually just go um use aiml to like design proteins like not a given when we got started right um the fact that our measurement technologies right between next-gen sequencing and and mass spectrometry like i can basically know exactly what's happening with my with my um library design like i't know, tools have come a huge way and now like pooled approaches for designing biological systems are there. So I'm not like designing and testing like a thousand designs, I get to do like 10,000 designs, a hundred thousand designs, a million designs, right? At a time. Like it's come a long way. And so what's cool about the tools getting so much better is that the envelope of applications that are actually like realistic to go after is like massively expanded. And so that's why we got into this in the first place. There was no like one application that motivated us. It was like, Oh man, the sky's the limit. If the tools got good enough and like the tools are actually getting good enough. So it's pretty cool. Yeah. if the tools got good enough and like the tools are actually getting good enough so it's pretty cool yeah and then i think i would say is then you start to like because you can start generating a lot more data and understanding remember we don't understand we didn't design these cells so the the more things you get to try the more your like theory of programming improves right right like remember like the book like the art of computer science and stuff you know like they're like there's like theory right you know it's not remember, like the book, like the art of computer science and stuff, you know, like, they're like, there's like theory, right? You know, it's not just about like the compilers and the debuggers that like, let you put the code in and let you test how your code perform, which we have a lot of here, you know, in our physical infrastructure. It's also like, how good are you at writing the code? Right. Like, that is getting exciting. Because like like we've always been anemic in the data we had to teach us how to get better at writing the code. And at least here at Ginkgo that is now changing. And by the way, for any of our customers who would like to access our infrastructure as a service, also available, huge scale learning, which you can then use to train your models and all that stuff. Like it's really, it's real neat. Sounds invaluable. Absolutely. So last question for me before we open it up to the audience is any parting advice for founders in the field who are just getting started? I'd say the typical advice I always give folks is like, don't underestimate your ability to learn, right? I think sometimes, particularly for bio companies, you might start with technical co-founders right um but like literally all of your training up until that point has been how to go into a new area and learn it turns out that skill set is applicable even outside of technology and science right you can go in and learn about how hr stuff works you can go in and learn about how to you know negotiate contracts you can go in and learn about how to negotiate contracts. You can go in and learn out how to do sales. You can go in and learn about how to run your accounting and finance teams. And so understanding that you have a tremendous ability to learn and grow as long as you're willing to put in the energy and the effort to climb those learning curves is, I think, a really important thing for all founders to appreciate. Yeah, absolutely. Don't build a lab. Don't do it. Don't do it. It's not worth it. Yeah. You're the cloud. Yeah. All right. Fantastic. And yeah, Reshma, I completely agree. It's a big reason why I wrote my book, Without a Doubt, because you have to be without a doubt that what you're working on is the thing you're most passionate about. But also, you have to believe in your own ability to learn to overcome other people's doubt, you know, your own doubt. So I absolutely love that. And the thing about not starting a lab. not starting a lab. Okay. So yeah, it's part of it. Okay. Let's, let's open the floor to questions. I love this one to get us started. In Jason's tweet, he said he'd be talking about dragons. Tell us about dragons. I did not see this. Yeah, I've got to promote your YouTube thing. Yeah, you're welcome. Okay. I had to read that one. I'm happy to move on. To start with, we're all in vile agreement that we want there to be dragons. So that goes without saying. Okay, right. So that's just the start. I'll just point out that they're clearly biological. My three-year-old and six-year-old boys would love it. That's for sure. Correct. Right. Exactly. All right. Now we're talking. Okay. Now, what a larger view here. Like, where does this stuff go in the long run right like if we really are like the long view of synthetic biology is to kind of get on a curve like our co-founder tom knight right like he's in his 70s right like he started mit the faculty in like 1972 right like the refrigerator-sized mini computer era of computers and condom like mainframes punch cards big computer architect because i okay right and so he saw computers go from being something that number one you had to be an electrical engineer to even know how to program number two you had to be like a wizard right like like just like a like a complete genius to now like you know like you can go on your 10 year old and go on ipad or go and scratch and write code right so why can't this happen in biology like it's going to happen right like it is going it is going to happen in biology like there is not there's not like a physical barrier in the way from this happening in biology it will ultimately get low cost it will ultimately distribute distributed your kids will ultimately get to design your garden. Okay. And like that's a really, to me, like that's a beautiful future, right? Like there's like, like biologists are the most, artists and designers, like when they get their hands on a substrate, just are incredible to watch and like biology is the most beautiful, right? So, yeah. They're willing to do that. I definitely agree. Okay, one for Reshma. Since it's Women's History Month, any advice you have for women in bio who want to start companies? Yeah, it's a good question. I don't know that I do actually have specific advice for women. do actually have specific advice like for for women uh because i think you know being a founder is being a founder and what it takes to succeed is the same across across the board um you know you might you might face some incremental challenges along the way like let's be real about that but i also think that it's important to not let that occupy too much of your headspace right um i try i try well i it really important to think about how do I like give back and like, and lift up like other women in the field. I also try not to spend too much time thinking about that, like for myself, because I think just takes you to a negative place and you can't really afford that as a founder. And so kind of staying focused on the future and staying focused on maintaining that learning mindset is, I think, kind of critical. Like everybody has their moments of doubt and negativity, but the extent you can just kind of stay focused on what you want to build. Yeah, Reshma, I totally agree. I mean, one problem with unconscious bias is that the people receiving it, they are always, you know, part of their brain might always be thinking, is it happening right now? And they'll expend the energy thinking, is it happening right now? But being a founder is so ridiculously hard. You don't have the mental energy, you know, and you don't need everyone to believe in what you're doing. You don't need everyone to believe in what you're doing. You don't need everyone to believe in you. You just need a few, you know, so as much as possible. And of course, it's hard. And of course, it should be acknowledged. But not letting it occupy that mind space, like you say, I think is so important. You know, there's just so much other stuff to do. Okay, I like this next one, because it's a little bit juicy and controversial, but not enough anyway. So it is, what do you think is the difference between the biotech ecosystem in Boston and Silicon Valley? I guess on the venture side, maybe that's the, or maybe just the biotech in general. I mean, I think when it comes to the companies, I think there's great companies in both places. I think Boston has really crazy drug development, like in terms of like the big biopharmas moving their research hubs, it's all come here. And that's a combination. I think it's like the European biopharmas moving their research hubs it's all come here uh and that's a combination i think it's like the european companies it's not that far and then it historically was new jersey because that was like where the chemical industry was and it's all consolidated to cambridge i mean there's still i mean there's very big companies out in the bay area but not it's just gotten so so heavy so i think i think there's a real advantage if you're doing drug discovery specifically to be out here um i think that's just true at this point um the but i think there's like san diego there's there's san francisco and boston that all have like the talent um i think i honestly think there's a real opportunity i think sam i think the silicon valley area is like like deep culture of product development um and so i think if you look at like all the people moving biotech into new non pharma areas, I think that, I think Silicon Valley area is going to dominate that. I just think it's, and you see it like new materials, leathers, mushrooms for this, like all that, like all the cool stuff that you see, like all these new apps in bio, like a lot of almost like I'd say 90 or more of those companies are out in the bay area yeah and wycombin air hopes to be part of that bay area movement for sure yeah um so two questions that i'll ask uh sort of back to back what do you think about aiml in the space of synthetic bio and any thoughts on how organoid intelligence intersects with symbio. Yeah. So in terms of AI ML and symbio, I mean, I think it has the potential to do a ton. Historically we've always been data limited in bio. Right. And so that's why I think the first place you've seen AI ML like have a real impact in bio is like where we had a lot of data, which is like, how do you take a sequence of a protein and turn it into the structure of a protein? We had a lot of data on that that's been built up over many, many years. It was all available in the public domain via the PDB, the Protein Databank. And so that's kind of, I think, partially why that's where AIML first made its mark in bio is the place where we had the most data. And so I think essentially I see it as like AIML is going to have impact like wherever you can get enough data to make those models useful. So that's a fundamental piece is like, how do you get access to the data sets? Because the tools are there now. But so it's the data is the limiting is the precious thing. You know what's a good way to generate lots of biological data? Access to Ginkgo's foundry of the service. Automation, right? So like, this is the right, like, like, like the limiting reagent for these models, like everyone's got the same algorithms, right? So like this is the right, like the limiting reagent for these models, like everyone's got the same algorithms, right? Like the algorithms are commodities more or less, like at the edge if they're not, but for the most part they are, right? It is having proprietary data, right? And then it's just the cost, particularly to generate data systematically that's like reliably comparable, honestly honestly i believe requires automation right yeah absolutely and then what about this other one on thoughts on how organoid intelligence intersects with simple bio i don't know what organized intelligence is you've escaped the bounds of our now yeah i'm sorry i google it really fast I'm sorry. I can't Google it really fast. Yeah, the organoid and intelligence together is what's... Yeah, I know what organoid is and I know what intelligence is. I just don't know what intelligence is. Remind me to not ask questions that I don't know the meaning of. When live on YouTube or LinkedIn. I was like, well, maybe they know what organoid intelligence is. Now you have seen the challenges of real tech. Yeah. Let's see. One of their questions. Would love to hear your take on the line between science and venture-backed engineering. How much does Ginkgo allocate to the unknown versus revenue generating from the known? Yeah, so I would say since we're a platform company, you know, like most of our platform capacity is taken up by like customer self programs. We do reserve a certain portion of it for, you know, internal R and D of various kinds to like, a lot of it is to make the platform better or to develop IP that we think will accelerate our customers programs. But just as a platform company and since that's our business, that's, that's kind of our focus. And what's cool is that it's like some of our customers want to do pretty amazing stuff right like you know the imagination and creativity and um and uh ambition of our customers is pretty impressive to see and so we get to do some really cool stuff in partnership with our customers i would say yeah yeah we have a weird yeah our dynamic againgo that lets us keep some of that learning. So that's one of the big ways we do it here. I would agree with that. Go ahead. When you think about Ginkgo in five years, what do you see the company working on? Or what do you imagine it being with this explosion of data and everything else that we're seeing now? Yeah, I mean, I can answer my view on this. I think in five years, like we ought to be starting to capture like a material chunk of the cell engineering across the current applications for biotech. So the big, you know, the big three are basically biopharma. And again, half of biopharma is chemistry. That's not us, but the half of biopharma, that is biotechnology, ag biotechnology. So like plant traits and biologicals, and then industrial biotechnology, like enzymes for laundry detergents, making renewable chemicals, animal feed, things like that. Okay. And so in those areas where people already do biotech, we want to affect, like, it's like literally what the, remember when there used to be a time where everyone had their own IT department and had their, you probably know, but there was like IT departments and servers and like little teams that ran them all and like that all got outsourced because I do remember that I'm also old I also had trouble with the fact that this wasn't on Zoom so yeah yeah exactly so it's all like you know the like that that transition from like everyone having their own small low throughput high cost version of something to making use of a centralized infrastructure I think we can pull that off in the next five years like that and and then from there it's all the new stuff right then it's then it's dragons right like then it's who knows what you can do with violence dragons but you start to drive improvement at a faster rate than you ever could have in the little server farm right like you know we wouldn't be having you know all the stuff happening in ai now, had it not been for all the data center drive, and then what that drove on all the chip improvements and all that, then suddenly new apps show up, right? That's what we want. You know, that's the long game. But in the next five years, it's move share from people doing it in house to our infrastructure. Okay, fantastic. So you, you talked, Reshma, your customers doing a lot of cool things. So I feel like this question from the audience to take us home. What's one recent partner with Ginkgo that you're most excited about in terms of growth and why? Is that like asking your favorite child is or? What was a cool tech or anything like what technology? to that. What was a cool tech or anything? What technology did you get excited about? I think what's been cool to see in the past couple of years is just how diverse the set of applications have gotten. We have programs in food. We have programs in agriculture to address sustainability and climate change. We have stuff like try to work on metabolic diseases we have stuff like in gene therapy it's like like we had talked about this for a long time right but to actually like see it become a reality is like pretty amazing yeah to see that the range yeah could all live on the same platform yeah not expected you know again like you know we always talk about it like we got to make the tools better so that we can serve all these different applications and it's like now the tools are actually getting better. And that's making a huge difference on the diversity of applications on the platform. And so to me, that's actually the thing that gets me the most excited and stoked is just like how broad a breadth that folks want to do out there with biology. Yeah, it's incredible what the implications are. So Reshma, Jason, thank you so much for being with me here today and talking about the incredible story of Ginkgo. I really appreciate your time. And for those on the call, don't forget that we have another Fireside Chat with Adam Elliser of Penumbra, who was the founder of the company, and now the company has a $10 billion market cap. So rare for founders just like these two to be there kind of the whole way through. And- Oh, wow. That's true. I had one small thing. I would say like the other thing I would, like a small piece of advice is like, and Sam's talking about this too, but I think like the set of early employees that can grow along with the company made all the difference in the world. That ends up creating all these nodes, founder-like throughout the company. And as you get bigger, oh my gosh, it's such a big deal. And so I would expand how people think about it. Because I think Weiss is really good about founders, and that kind of loses a little bit of the thread on the very earliest employees. And I think that that would be like, a bit of a nudge, you know, like, I think that's been as important for us. We have a lot of founders that helps, but like, that extended net has really paid off. That's such a great point to end with because it really takes a lot of people to make a company successful. And those early folks end up being like family and carrying sort of the culture of the founders and of the company forward as it grows, right? So absolutely. And in my book that's coming out on Tuesday, I do that. I try to celebrate the early team as much as I can and all of their contributions, you know, so wonderful point. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you both so much. Yeah. Thank you. All right. All right. Thanks all. Bye. Bye. Thanks. Bye. Teksting av Nicolai Winther Thank you. Teksting av Nicolai Winther Thank you. Thanks for watching!