 Hi, everybody. Welcome. And Adam, thank you so much for being here today. Yeah, thank you for having me. I want to apologize in advance. Maybe there's a little noise in the background. My headphones didn't work and I'm at a medical conference, so hopefully you can all hear me okay. Yeah. Adam, we can hear you just fine. And thank you so much for being here. Folks that maybe haven't heard of Adam's background quite yet. Adam started Penumbra and took the company from its founding state all the way to a market cap of 10 billion. And he did this as the founder CEO, which is so incredibly rare in our industry. But in fact, this is your second company, right, Adam? Did you always know you were going to start companies? No, in fact, it's the exact opposite. It wasn't an ambition. In fact, I started my career, I actually played in politics for a couple of years, realized I might be still too idealistic to do that. So I went to law school, became a practicing lawyer for many years, did commercial real estate in the Bay Area, became a partner in my firm. commercial real estate in the Bay Area, became a partner in my firm. And it wasn't until the late 90s that I was having dinner in New York with my best friend from college who was a neuro-interventionalist. And he had all these crazy ideas. And in a silly bit of fate, I jokingly said, let's start a company. I didn't mean it. And we started a company and here we are. So tell us about that first company. So you said it sort of jokingly. When did you know that this thing was going to be more serious? And what did that first company work on? Yeah. So what happens, we were at a dinner. I had been married before and I had just met a woman on a blind date that I fell madly for in the first date. was my best friend from college, and I was telling about her. He lived in New York. We lived in the Bay Area, and I wanted him to meet her, and so the point of the dinner, we went to New York to have a long weekend, and the point of the dinner was for him to meet Martha. By the way, I've been married to Martha ever since and still the love of my life, but he gave me the sort of sign, but he gave me the sort of sign, the thumbs up sign very quickly in the dinner because she's amazing and told me I better not screw it up and then I guess he felt that he could then spend the rest of the time talking about his stuff since he checked that box on his stuff, my stuff. So he started talking about ideas for neurovascular devices. And this is back in 1998. And in 1998, there was really only one at that point cleared medical device, the first detachable coil that Target Therapeutics had done and then Boston Scientific had bought. And so it was very early. There were all kinds of needs. And he was talking about aneurysms and stroke and all kinds of things that I didn't really know much about. And it was interesting for a little bit, but after about 15, 20 minutes, I realized we would spend the next two hours talking about it. So because Martha was there, I couldn't just tell him to shut up. That would have looked rude. So I suggested that we start a company. It's not that hard, thinking that would stop him from talking about it, but then we'd be done with it. So I knew I had screwed up pretty badly the next day when he called me while I was still in New York and insisted that we get together to sort of plan starting that company, which I was reluctant to do. But again, Martha's the nice one and suggested it was okay. And we planned a company and started that company about a month or two later. That was called Smart Therapeutics. And the company made the first stint ever to go into the brain. And we ended up selling that company to Boston Scientific a couple of years later. And so how was that transition into entrepreneurship for you, right? We have a lot of listeners who are perhaps doing something else that are thinking about becoming founders. What was it like to go from doing something completely different into the seat of a founder? Yeah. Well, you know, there was something I used to say as a lawyer, and I think it's really the advice that I would give anyone who is considering doing this. And that is understand how you view the idea of uncertainty. I don't mean risk. Risk is a quantifiable thing. You know, you can look at it and say, what are the odds that I'll do this or that? And you can quantify risk. But uncertainty is just uncertainty. You really can't quantify it. And most people, me included, you know, we're pre-wired not to like uncertainty. We kind of hope that, you know, we have a plan and then we want the world to sort of fold out, you know, in front of us according to the plan. That isn't very valuable. Like that is like, that's a bad thing. So you have to like uncertainty. And, and that, that dynamic is tricky for a lot of people. So what I would advise everyone is to really look deep in your heart and say, how not only can I tolerate uncertainty, but do I like uncertainty? And if you do, then, you know, you'll be pretty good at it because every single thing you do as an entrepreneur is uncertain. And that's the only constant. Is that whatever you're doing is uncertain. And I want to come back to sort of how you found the early team. And if you looked at uncertainty with how they handle things, and if that was something you started being able to spot in interviews, you know, how do you know if someone is not just tolerant of uncertainty, but sort of thrives in it, enjoys it? You know, if you're trying to look at that from afar, I think it really just comes down to the way they make decisions. You know, are they making decisions that look more like risk adjusted decisions, you know, as opposed to the analysis that goes through their head around something. So for us, for, it was always, you know, the simple things, you know, if we're making a product, what is it going to do? Is it going, you know, when it's ready? Is it do, does it do what we think it's going to do? Where we write in those assumptions, all the things that, you know, sometimes you're taught to look at the market to deal with reimbursement, to deal with, you know, you know, physicians who, you know, whatever the customer base is, don't worry about any of that, you know, focus on the most important thing. Does it do what you want to do and is what you want to do valuable? And so when we started Penumbra, you know, we were going to go after ischemic stroke, the idea of taking blood clot out of your brain with a catheter deep in the brain and sort of suck it out. At the time, no doctor wanted to do that. So our current customer base basically said, we don't want to treat those. Like it was not something that they were dying to do and looking forward to. There was zero reimbursement for the procedure and there was nothing that was patentable. And so, you know, you could look at that and make the decision, don't do that. That would be a risk adjusted decision because of those risks. We're not going to do it. But if you don't look at those things and say, yeah, but there are, you know, a lot of people, you know, probably in the U.S. alone, a couple hundred thousand worldwide, over a million plus who have what's called a large vessel stroke. And that stroke could be devastating for them. And we think there's a way to make them much, much better. Then it's an easy decision to go into because the rest of those things take care of themselves and in our case with penumbra which is that company you know the stroke company all of those things took care of themselves we've got reimbursement doctors want to do it um we're finally now almost 20 years later the technology has evolved and evolved and guess what our current iteration of these products have patents on them. So it might take a while, but you can get there for the things that you otherwise might have valued higher than the end result. Yeah. And what really strikes me about that is that when you talk to the potential customers, they just said that they didn't want to do this so first what were they doing at the time to treat this condition and how did you make yourself believe make investors believe make your early team believe that even though the customers were saying that they wouldn't want your solution, that it was something that was needed, right? Yeah. Yeah. So that's a, that's a tricky, and I'm really glad you picked up on that particular point because you do have to listen to your customers, but to a point. So why were they saying that? You know, what was motivating them to say that? Neurointerventionists at the time treated aneurysms. They had busy practices. There weren't that many of them, so they were doing them all. And that business, those clinical cases did not require them to be on call. So if all of a sudden they were going to start treating acute ischemic stroke, they had to be on call. And that's a totally different lifestyle than they had signed up for when they went into neurointervention. So the reason they didn't want to do it, again, they didn't say that, but, you know, that was probably pretty clear. No one said, oh, I don't want to treat those patients because I don't care. You know, Everyone wants to help people if they could. So you have to look at the motivation. And in that case, it was pretty clear that we were on the right track. From a physician standpoint, they just would have to be on call. And on the reimbursement, it was, again, something that we looked at and said, reimbursement will take care of itself because we know that it costs the healthcare system $30 billion or some absurd amount of money to treat patients after they've had a stroke every year. The amount of care given to people who don't die after a stroke but live impaired is huge. And so if you could take a significant percentage of those people and not have them have that cost, that burden, there's going to be reimbursement. And lo and behold, long before we had any data, CMS granted reimbursement because they obviously were looking at the same numbers and trying to create a dynamic of innovation, which is pretty rare. But we knew that was on our side. Yeah. Yeah. So you the most physicians didn't want to change their lifestyle so drastically to then be on call, which completely makes sense. Did you did you have a few believers, like a few physicians that were sort of rallying around the idea and supporting it? Yeah. Yeah. There were there's no question there were people. And I certainly appreciate the clarification because there were definitely people who, you know, and a lot who wanted to see these patients helped, you know, but it was, it was sort of a two-edged sword, you know, yes, we know we should be doing this, but, you know, oh, now we have to be on call, you know, so it's a little bit, you know, it's understandable. It's understandable. You know, So it's a little bit, you know, it's understandable. It's understandable. You know, we didn't make judgments on that. Yeah, that's a big deal. Yeah, that's one of the things I touch upon in my book, Without a Doubt, which is actually being released tomorrow. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. I was rejected so much, so many times by so many different people, you know, including customers, including investors, but you just need those core few people, right? You really believe in it to kind of push things forward. So, so with that being said, what was it like, tell me a little bit about your investment and funding experience for the first company, did you raise venture capital? Did you raise money from angels? And then what did you do the second time around? Yeah. So to be very fair, we did not ever in both companies raise formal venture capital money. We were lucky enough. I was coming from a law practice where I knew a lot of people who had lots of means. And Arani, my co-founder, had some other additional friends. But with just people we knew, we were able to fund the first company. Obviously, we ended up selling that relatively quickly to Boston and raising money the same way for the second company was pretty straightforward. So we never took any sort of institutional venture capital or other forms of institutional money until we actually, a little less than a year before we went public, we did what they call a crossover round that Fidelity led. But that was in anticipation of going public, which we can talk about why we did that. But we never had that kind of money. Now, we were lucky, you know, that not everyone has that level of people that they knew who would, who would fund, you know, and invest in the business. Adam, I love, love this part of your story because in our industry, people are always saying you have to raise money from the cool kids, you know, the big venture funds to be successful and you clearly did it without them uh do you ever feel like that held you back at all oh god no in fact it i think it enabled us um uh again nothing wrong with the you know any form of money or whatever wrong with the, you know, any form of money or whatever institution they're in. That's not a judgment. It's just the amount of time spent dealing with their views, you know, wasn't helpful for us, you know, and that's just unique to our story. Maybe it would resonate with others. You know, we were pretty disciplined. You know, we weren't, you know, if it wasn't working and we weren't going to be successful, you know, we would have understood that, you know, in some sense, I think we were more committed because they were friends of ours. You know, like the last thing you want to do is fail in your business and then lose all your friends at the same time. You know, so I think we were, you know, pretty driven to succeed and continue to go because of the friendship. In the second company, it was a little bit different because we, the pathway, you know, there wasn't make a product, get the FDA approval. And we sold the company at that point. The second company, we knew that it would take a lot longer to deal with acute ischemic stroke. That was just a much, much more significant pathway. So, in fact, we told our investors, you know, you can invest, but under one condition. You can call either of us as friends because we're friends, but you cannot call us as investors for 20 years. For 20 years. Because the 20, and so, and that was just the deal like you know we this is going to take a long time you know if it was easy it would have been done it's not it's really hard the pathway is going to be not a straight line and therefore you know invest why with your eyes wide open and that's not something obviously that institutional investors would typically be interested in it's not in their charters that institutional investors would typically be interested in. It's not in their charters and so on. Again, not their fault. It's just the nature of the sources of their money. And so for us, it was really a critical component of the journey that we've been on in order to build this business. So because you knew it was going to take decades, I mean, you had just sold a company and then decided to do another one. Was there anything about either the acquisition or not, or just generally, did you think that you were going to take this one public when you started it? Yeah, I didn't think about that. I didn't personally have any ambition of running a public company. I still don't, albeit I've been doing it a long time. The goal wasn't that form of, you know, what our company was. The goal was to make these products. We actually went public, make these products. We actually went public, not for the reasons you typically think, which was to, you know, get the ability to take money out of and put it in your pocket. The goal was in 2014, we went public in 2015. In 2014, a series of clinical trials were conducted and finished and published in New England Journal in stroke, where it proved definitively that you should do this treatment across the board for anybody who has a large vessel stroke. And it was this really watershed moment. But the problem was, notwithstanding that clinical trial, those clinical trials rather, there was all these structural impediments, and there still are, in how to get those patients treated. Because the theory was they had to be treated by a neuro-trained physician. There weren't that many. They were in only certain hospitals. So the patients would have to be moved from where they show up to a different hospital. And with stroke, every minute counts. You're losing neurons all the time. And so how do you do that? And what form is that gonna take? All of that's governed by state, and in many cases, local laws and ordinances. So the idea that that would automatically happen because, you know, and there's an economic incentive, unfortunately, not to transfer the patients. Hospitals that get stroke patients get a lot of money for treating them after their stroke. So, you know, there was some built-in bias, again, not anyone's fault, not, you know, it was done for the right reasons, you know, to make sure those patients could be treated after their stroke, but it wasn't updated fast enough. And so I was worried, you know, we have some competitors, sorry, noise is getting louder. And I really apologize for that. Yeah, we can hear you just fine. louder. And I really apologize for that. Yeah, we can hear you just fine. We had big competitors, Medtronic, Stryker, but it didn't make a huge difference that business compared to the rest of their businesses. And so I was worried that, and our physicians hadn't yet gotten organized like cardiology or some of the other specialties. So I was worried that it might get lost. And that moment with these trials might get lost. And no one cares about what a private company says in that setting. So as a public company, we could harness the power of Wall Street and the messaging around how important this treatment was. And I think it worked. around how important this treatment was. And I think it worked. So it was, you know, that was the rationale for going public. Something that made a lot of sense to me, I was told, you know, probably shouldn't say that much to investors, but I did anyway, and none of them seemed to think it was a bad idea. Great, great. So Adam, one topic I'm really excited to talk to you about is team building in the early days. It's something that's always struck me about Penumbra. You know, when you first brought me in to meet your team, they seem so cohesive and motivated. And there was clearly a cultural vein that kind of ran through everything that people did and the way they spoke. And I've also been at your office at 6.30 a.m. and left at 6 p.m. and the parking lot was full. And I just, I admire so much the culture that you have created. But for the founders on the call, right, it starts with those first five or 10 or 15 people to 50 people. How do you build that type of team and culture, Adam? What did you look for? Well, the second company, you know, was easier in that the same people that were in the first company, the first 19 employees were all from the first company. And so we'd already had a little bit of a track record together. But there are a bunch of things that I would say, culture is one of those weird things. Everyone has different ways of talking about it. So I'll sort of share how I talk about it. Maybe it will resonate with some of your listeners. I don't know. It starts with a couple of fundamental things. You know, I've watched at bigger companies the way people interact and it becomes very political. You know, the boss has to be right. And therefore, even if somebody disagrees with the boss, you know, they sit there quietly, they don't challenge the boss, you know, and then you get the wrong answer, you know, because the boss was totally wrong and no one could say anything. So it starts with creating a culture and a dynamic where you can have discussion about it. And so I always share with everyone the fundamental view that, you know, I'm wrong at least half the time. And I start with that. And that's about true. You know, that's pretty good being wrong half the time. That means I'm right half the time. But why rather than talk about that and sort of keep score, if you aren't uptight about being wrong, you know, then as a team, you get the right answer because, you know, I might start a conversation by saying, hey, what do you guys think about X? Or I might even say we should do X. You know, I'm not saying I always have perfect rounded language. I might say it as a more of a this is what we're doing. But you build a culture where someone can say, hey, you know, Adam, I don't think that's a good idea because of this and this. And they have to feel like they can do that and go like, oh, my God, that's a much better idea. Thank you. And then no one keeps score. You know, it just becomes part of the operation of the enterprise where discussion and decision. Ultimately, you know, I have to decide if it's a big enough issue. Otherwise, department heads decide. And sometimes we're wrong. But you tend to be right a lot more if you're not starting out needing to be right and then just dictating that down. Though I use the word cooperation. I think that word has this element to me of sort of everyone working together, sort of, you know, not against each other, not politicking with each other. And many years ago, my daughter, one of my daughters is now 20. So this would have been nine years ago because she was 11. She's an amazing artist. It's not what she wants to pursue professionally. an amazing artist. It's not what she wants to pursue professionally. But I asked her at 11 if she would do a painting, paint a painting, paint a image depicting the idea of cooperation. That's all I said, because it would be wonderful to see. And I could have it as sort of a thing to talk about. I didn't give her any direction. She was 11 and took about 40 minutes. She came back and found me in the house and said, all right, dad, I figured out what I want to paint. She said, I, and this I remember specifically because I was a little blown away. She said, I envision, and I thought that was an interesting term for an 11-year-old to use, I envision a giant wave on the ocean. And that wave, inside the wave, there are all kinds of different shapes. Those shapes are in different sizes and colors. But together, those shapes of different sizes and colors, they represent people, and people come in different shapes, sizes and colors. But together they form a giant wave moving across the ocean that is in sync and all powerful and unstoppable. And I thought, oh, my God, that's like the single best way to describe the company culture. So that particular painting has been framed and is on my wall in my office. And I do encourage people to look at it and remember that what it means, particularly if they're losing their way in any given moment and needing credit or, you know, all the silly stuff that we all do with each other because we're human beings. you know, all the silly stuff that we all do with each other because we're human beings. So this cultural value and what an insightful 11 year old, incredible. So, and I've seen that painting and it's pretty tremendous and powerful. So this cultural value of cooperation, okay, I can completely, I can see it working 10, 20, 50 people. You have thousands of people now. Has that cultural value scale, how do you make your most important cultural value scale? I actually think it's easier as you get bigger if it's rooted well. The biggest risk to the company was when we were smaller, when we had like 30 or 40 people and we doubled the size relatively quickly because there was a moment then that we had as many new people as we did old people. And so you could have lost the culture to the new people, But we're now way past that. We never hire so many new people that that's at risk. And the reason I say that is I don't run the culture. I'm not in charge of it anymore. The culture is totally the embodiment of everyone in the company and they protect it pretty strongly. And I don't mean in a negative way, you know, gentle reminders of new people coming in and saying, hey, yeah, you don't have to worry about this or that. You know, if you have an idea, speak up, you know, and as people see it in action, they start to trust it. And it's just human nature, right? You would much rather, you know, you come into a new organization, you're going to be quiet at first. You're not going to challenge the boss. You're going to check it out. And even if you're told it's okay, you're still going to wait. But after a month or two, you're like, oh, my God, it sort of worked. It's true. And then they try it. And then it works. And they get confident. So at this stage, I don't actually spend a lot of time on the culture part, if you will. I talk about it, but I don't need to manage it because it's being managed by everyone in the company. It's sort of taken on a life of its own. It's the company's culture. It's the people's culture. That's wonderful. There's a chapter in my book on team building that I call La Familia, and it's because one of my early employees who's from Mexico started calling us that, right? But you hear on the other end of it, a lot of tech CEOs saying it's not a family, it's a sports team. What's your take on this? What's your response? Yeah, I don't spend a lot of time thinking about sports, so I don't know what that analogy means. No offense to, you know, who says it. I just not my thing. I, you know, sure, family is good. You know, it's tricky because, you know, what happens if you have layoffs? What happens if you fire someone for performance issues? You know, then it's all of a sudden not a family, you know, and there can be, there is a line there that you have to acknowledge, you know, and not pretend that doesn't exist. And I don't like we don't call it that, like we don't call it anything, you know, other. It's just the company. We don't have to put a label like that on it is just how people are with each other. You know, when I every year I write an end of the year letter to the company. And this year I commented, I used some of the terms. I wanted everyone to be reminded to think the best of everyone's motivation. So, you know, you might disagree with someone, you might so on, but assume that they're coming at it with the best of everyone's motivation. So, you know, you might disagree with someone, you might so on, but assume that they're coming at it with the best of intentions. You might have the wrong answer. They might be right, but don't think that they have the worst of intentions, you know, and that's sort of this idea of living with grace, you know, and, and that, that's sort of, I think how I like to frame, frame it more, you know, yeah, we're, we spent a lot of time together. We cared a lot about each other. We would do a lot for each other. But, but to sort of put it into a, you know, I'm a team or I'm a family or, you know, I, we don't tend to do that that often. Yeah. Yeah. No, that makes a lot of sense. So you touched upon having to let someone go or firing a little bit, right? And this is something that I don't think I've ever worked with a first time founder who hasn't really struggled with it. It really feels like you're letting someone else down. It feels like a personal failure. Any advice there? Yeah. My biggest failure is been not doing that fast enough for people. And, you know, for all those same reasons. So, so I'm not immune from all of those feelings. I got my first taste early when a couple of people did stuff that was just obviously so bad you had to fire them. So it became, okay, I can do this. You know, as a lawyer, you know, I was a partner at the firm. We had people do that for us. You know, we were wimps for the most part and so i hadn't ever personally done that um i you know be fair really make sure you're doing it for all the right reasons you know not just because you don't like someone or you know they challenged you or said something or all that nonsense you know because you could be getting rid of somebody quite talented and it's you who can't handle You could be getting rid of somebody quite talented and it's you who can't handle their truth, if you will. But there are lots of people who just aren't good for the organization and don't hope that it magically gets better. You know, we have seen a bunch of people who have it dramatically improved, but that's a different thing. You know, they're starting at a different place you know and so everyone knows and below every company will have people who just shouldn't be there and the sooner you deal with it the better and how do you know when it's someone that just shouldn't be there like it's a cultural issue versus something you can coach you know how do you find that line? Because I think that's the thing that founders really struggle with is, am I doing something wrong? Could I be giving better direction? Is this just a matter of coaching? There's no magic because everyone who's in that situation, you know, or subject to that analysis is going to have a different thing. You know, they're going to have, maybe they just can't do the work, you know, for, from a talent standpoint, maybe they have an attitude that is so toxic and destructive. You know, there's a few bright lines, obviously, where you don't have to have a lot of discussion. You know, if someone is abusive or someone's inappropriate you know then those are easy and simple lines and don't ever try to justify that out just be done with it but the you know they're sort of a b minus performer and god wouldn't it be amazing if you had an a performer in that job? Those are where it gets like, you know, really a lot harder, you know, to like, is, is, can they do it? Is it possible? Can they grow into it if we coach them and learn? And, you know, I'm not opposed to trying really hard. Some of our most powerful and impactful people needed a little coaching to get there. And now they're amazing. But you kind of know, you know, you know, and so it's like, if you're being honest with yourself, you would know, you know, there's a difference. And it's hard. There's no, that one is going to be hard for everyone. It's hard for me. It's hard for other managers in the company, but it has to have, you have to know how it gets better. You can't just hope it will get better because the whole part of it won't. I mean, my experience anyway is that hope never is satisfied. Right absolutely um so a little bit more about your team and also sort of the way we met right so it's women's history month and you you and i met uh because we were at a jp morgan ceo dinner together. And you repeatedly talked about how proud you were of a female engineer who was working on a new design feature for you guys. And then I said something snarky to you, like, oh, you seem to be enjoying talking to your only female engineer, which is embarrassing for me because then I went on to find out that 50% of your international workforce is women and you have a ton of women in leadership. And this is just not something you see on our industry even today, right? It's so rare. Adam, is this something you did by design? Yeah, sort of, but not for the reasons. So I got a call, God, it was, it feels like maybe four or five years ago, I've lost track of time, certainly before COVID, from somebody who said they worked at the Center for Investigative Journalism. And you can only imagine my reaction to that call. That was not a positive, like, oh, great. I was like, uh-oh, what's this about? And this organization had been doing a several-year investigation into getting all of the Department of Labor data that companies have to file on their demographics. And so they had taken basically all the public companies in the Bay Area and looked at the demographics of their employees. And they were calling because they Because they said, you know, from a demographic standpoint, both in terms of, you know, minority, you know, non-white people, but particularly women, your company is just different than any other company, you know, of any public company in Bay Area. And that included all the big tech companies and all that. They ended up doing a thing that was on NPR, an interview with me. And I was asked a question, you know, like every company wants to hire women, you know, particularly in engineering roles or senior roles, their biggest comment or their complaint is we don't get those applications. And, you know, I said, you know, this is why you and I, I think, became friends. I said something snarky to them, which was, you know, half the people are women. So, you know, you can't tell me they're not out there. Half of them are women. That's obvious. Like, it's not like males make up, you know, 90% of the human race, half are women, half are men. So the only problem is people might not be applying for jobs at those companies because of the company, because working there, you know, is the environment is not as conducive. We get tons of applications. We get, you know, we have never had a shortage of applications for women to work at our company, whether it's in engineers or in the senior executive ranks or anything. So, you know, I think it's how you set up the company, how you have those interactions. You know, for us, it's just how we've always done it. Our first employee, you know, happens to be an engineer, Our first employee happens to be an engineer, happens to still be sort of there, is a woman. More than half my direct reports are women. So if you're looking at the company, you see that dynamic. You don't have to second guess it. And so you don't do it by having a program. You don't do it by following some guideline or this. You just do it by hiring the best people. And if you hire the best people, by definition, half are going to be women. It isn't more complicated than that other than making sure that when they're there at your company, they're folded in and treated the same way as anyone else. It's not that hard. It really isn't that hard. Wonderful, Adam. I know that if we could see your audience, we would see a lot of heads nodding. Thank you so much for pioneering the way there. So last question for me, and it looks like we're getting a lot of questions from the audience, but I do want to talk about the moment you took the company public. So you had worked tirelessly to kind of change the way stroke was treated as a whole, came up with this life-saving device, took it through clinical trials, reimbursement, all of those hurdles. And then you're there at that moment that so many founders just dream about, which is ringing the bell. Tell me about what that moment was like for you. Say that one more time, Serby. The connection got a little wonky. I apologize. No, no, no. It's no problem at all. So I was just going to say we're getting a ton of great questions from the audience, but I wanted to ask you one more question. So I was, I was just going to say, we're getting a ton of great questions from the audience, but I wanted to ask you one more question. So for decades, you worked on this company, you took it through clinical trial after clinical trial, through all of the reimbursement hurdles, all of the team hurdles, everything else. And then you're finally at this moment that basically every founder dreams about, you're about to ring the bell, you're taking the company public. Who rang your bell, Adam? What was that moment like for you? Yeah, so the bell, we had asked a woman named Phyllis, who was at the time about 80 years old. She had been a patient that had been treated by a physician with our product after having a pretty severe stroke. She made a complete recovery and we wanted her to have the opportunity, you know, to ring the bell, to really, you know, talk about her, to signify the point of why we were going public. You know, that was fun. You know, she got a lot of, you know, press. There was a lot of discussion about stroke patients, which was sort of the point. But more importantly, you know, so so for for us, the idea like we didn't dream about going public. We didn't dream about that moment. In fact, you know, we specifically, you know, said and all the senior leadership who didn't end up coming to New York for that. coming to New York for that, they didn't have a big watch party for that morning when we, you know, became, they just went about their business and nothing changed because the goal was not to go public. The goal was not now look at us, nothing changed. It just meant our ownership structure slightly changed, but it didn't mean anything beyond that. And that was just sort of wealth, not only understood, but felt by people who worked at the company. So it wasn't the same as what I think some people think about as this is the end, or this is sort of some grand moment. It was sort of irrelevant. I mean, I will be very candid, you know, the day, you know, we rang the bell, we had a whole day of whatever. I went to bed, I was dead tired. I woke up an hour later going, holy crap, what the hell did we just go public for? Now every single thing I've ever do is going to be, you know, in the spotlight. So I definitely, you know, there are some pros and cons about it, but it's turned out okay for us. Incredible, Adam. It sounds like for you, it starts and ends with the patients. Yeah, you have to want to be doing it for the right reasons, you know, and we've all know, and certainly in the medical field, it's not different than other fields. If you're doing it for making money, you know, doesn't mean you won't make money. It just, it's a different journey. And, and it, it requires different decision making. And, you know, again, not that I'm judging that it's just not what we were about. Okay, fantastic. So Adam, let's turn it to the audience for some questions. We have some good ones here. Someone from LinkedIn asks, how can someone train themselves to like uncertainty? Is this something you can train? I actually think it is. But it requires, you know, a lot of sort of internal work and discipline. You know, we all want to know how the story ends. You know, we have a plan, we have this, you know, just even in our personal life, right. You know, if we're married, whatever, we want to know that we come home and home is there, you know, and it's all, and, and that, so, so there is a natural desire to want certainty and, a natural desire to want certainty. And I'm not different than that. But if you're ever going to do something that's never been done before, if you're doing things that have been done before, then there's going to be a certainty to it. But if you are going to embark on doing something that's never been done, and most new companies are like that, then you have to really talk to yourself over and over again about the pleasure of not knowing how you get to the end and utterly being comfortable with failure. You know, what happens if it doesn't work? How embarrassed will I be? You know, will I be able to go back to my, in my case, my law firm? How embarrassed will I be with, I go back to my in my case my law firm how embarrassed will i be with i go back to my partners and i say do you mind if you take me back you know i was an utter failure as a ceo you know and be okay with that like not not have it paralyze you you know and not and if you can do that and you can talk to yourself about those type of things, then you'll do fine with uncertainty. If those things are paralyzing, then yeah, it's probably not for you. Yeah. I love the idea of just diving into what the worst case is and seeing if you can get comfortable with it. That's fantastic. All right. Jumping to the next one. Did you worry about the timelines for any regulatory clearances? And how did you approach the capital needed to support those regulatory clearances? Yeah, I mean, so the answer, if the answer is do I worry about, I worry about everything. You know, worry is the nature of the thing. I'm utterly paranoid. I think about it, obsess about it. I have plenty of sleepless nights. Anyone who tells you that's not true, you know, it's totally and you have to be willing to do that. So worry and obsession about all the details are critical. That's different than, you know, oh, my God, you know, this is catastrophic. oh my God, you know, this is catastrophic. Again, on the money part, we were lucky. We raised money from sources that gave us a decent, and I had the capacity to raise a lot of money from just friends. That's not typical. I understand that. But that did give us, and we were also very cheap, in that. But that did give us and we were also very cheap, incredibly cheap. So we, you know, the first year we started commercializing our products, we started the company in 2004. At the very end of 2004, and beginning of 2008, we were really starting to commercialize it. We from 2008 on, we were profitable, you profitable, even as a smaller company. So we structured the company to spend as little as possible. And that meant some unpleasant decisions sometimes. We stayed at the cheapest hotels and flew coach everywhere we went, which is fine. But I did that too. And so, you know, you get some moral authority if I'm staying in a, you know, $69, you know, hotel or motel or whatever, you know, people aren't going to then say, oh, I want to stay at some fancy place. So, you know, we acted like a startup because we were using, you know, our friends' money the right way. So I worry about it, but we were also fortunate enough to get through that. Timelines, regulatory timelines, you know, there's no rhyme or reason to them. You know, you do the work, you respond. My biggest advice there is to always be, you know, honest and open and get a good reputation. You know, they, you know, doesn't say this, but they have impressions of companies, you know, and so obviously. And so get a reputation early as being incredibly honest, you know, and forthright and respond to their questions. And, and then, you know, that process becomes at least a little more manageable. Yeah. Yeah. And this idea of being cheap and how important it is. I remember taking red eyes to the motel that was closest to the airport before going the case the next morning you know yeah it's it's and if you raise money from institutional you know sources sometimes you feel like it's not yours you know when you raise it from friends you know there's a little bit more about ownership maybe and so I'm a big believer regardless of the source of your money of being cheap um uh and i think it sets the real culture um for the company that's important you know so it's not about what i can get away with spending it's you know um we also on the money side real quick we don't have departmental budgets we have a real quick, we don't have departmental budgets. We have a company budget, but we don't have departmental budgets. So we have none of the nonsense of, well, it's my department's budget. And if I don't spend it, I lose it. So I'm going to waste it on stupid shit. Oh, stupid stuff. Sorry. And that dynamic is really critical. And that's a whole other conversation for another meeting. But how one thinks about money and budgets is pretty critical. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Okay. Now jumping to the sales end of things, how did you set up your sales channels or sales teams from first sales employee to getting the first few customers? Yeah, so we were really lucky. You know, our first company, we had made this pretty revolutionary product in the neurovascular field. And so we, and it was really small. Neurovascular was small then. So by the time we were ready to commercialize with Penumbra, the second company, we knew that field really well. There weren't so many doctors. And we also knew a lot of the sales people, the sales leadership from Boston Scientific and the other company at the time. So we just took their best people. And, you know, there was a lot of sort of connection already and there was a lot of sense. So we just built a really, really good sales force from within this relatively small group. And once you do that, you know, we were quite successful. Again, it wasn't like starting a sales force from scratch in cardiology or something that had a much bigger and and more daunting thing we can do that now but at the time we were lucky enough you know how would I do that if I was in a much bigger field again it would be trying to get you know really good experienced sales leaders who knew and know how to hire the kind of people. And there's a lot of different kinds of salespeople. So hiring the right kind, the kind that fits your culture and your style is really critical to success. Great. Okay. So I love this next question. What traits as a leader, IQ, EQ, humility, work ethic, do you think your team got the most amount of inspiration and motivation from? all important. I wouldn't know how to judge it. Work ethic obviously matters. Humility matters. Probably the least important is IQ. I'm not that smart. I don't know what I'm talking about. And so of those four, probably EQ, humility, and work ethic matter. IQ is probably the least important. I mean, again, if you're wrong half the time, you can be wrong, you know, 60% of the time and still be successful as long as you're listening to the people who know more than you. I agree. Being decisive matters. You know, people, when you're in that job, you have to be decisive, but you have to do it by getting the right answer from everyone around you. Yeah, I would also rank IQ last in that list, from that list. And then the other part of this question was, how did you manage yourself in your early days? Sleep schedule, rest, work ethic wise? work ethic wise? Yeah. You know, it's a challenge. I won't tell you it wasn't or isn't. I will tell you, you know, and I say this fairly often between I have four kids. Wonderful. My youngest is 18. She has special needs. So beyond, you know, I tried to be a really good dad to my kids. I tried to be a really good husband to Martha. And I ran the company. I didn't do anything else. You know, I hear some young people talking about me time and they they go this or they go golfing or they and I'm not judging any of that. You can't couldn't do that like i had nothing but the things i just said so i showed up as a dad i showed up as a husband and i ran the company and everything else gave way to that um and that was the best i can handle i couldn't have done more than that and maybe there are people who have more talent but that was. Well, I also couldn't do anything else besides show up as a mom, show up as a wife and show up as a founder. And that was it for me too. So I'm so sorry to everybody in the chat whose questions we didn't get to, but Adam, I do want to close with one more thing for you, which is for all of the founders on the phone or future founders as well. Some are kind of thinking about starting a company. Some have raised a bit of money. Maybe some are even more mature in their career. What advice do you have? What parting words to founders do you have? There's so many things. things if i'm going to summarize it into sort of one um short bit of advice um make sure you're starting the company for the right reasons and make sure that whenever stuff goes the wrong way your decision making is is pure um don't get stuck making decisions that you will regret, you know, whether it's around product safety, around performance. Don't do it. It will never turn out OK. Do it for the right reasons. And if you're in the health care field, you know, it's about what your product does for patients. It's another field. It's about what really matters. And if you start cutting corners and sort of like, it's going to unwind and end up not working. So do it for the right reasons. And money is not, in my mind, one of those reasons. It's a byproduct of doing something that matters. Absolutely. I couldn't agree more. Adam, thank you so much for taking the time to share some of your incredible story with us and your words of wisdom. I really appreciate it. Yeah. Well, thank you for having me and congratulations on your fantastic book. If anyone's listening has not bought it, please buy it. It's amazing. And thanks for the great conversation. Appreciate appreciate it thank you so much adam all right take care bye Thank you. Teksting av Nicolai Winther Thank you. Thank you.