 Cool. I think so. Yeah. Hi, everyone. My name is Eric Medjikovsky. Whoops, I just got a gift from Zoom. My name is Eric Medjikovsky. I'm a partner here at Y Combinator, and I'm the course facilitator for Startup School. Welcome to a new experiment that we're going to try to do. We're going to do live office hours with as many companies as we can from Startup School in the next hour. At YC, one of the things that we do with our companies is usually have around 10 to 15 minutes every week or two where we talk through problems that founders are having and try to apply the kind of common YC wisdom to the specific problem that they may be encountering. So without any further ado, there are a couple people on this call and we're just going to start doing office hours. So the first person will be JC from Boxcore. Let's let him in. Hey, JC. Can you hear me? JC? Hello. Okay. Maybe he's not there. Let me We will move on to the next person. Next is CoreCare. Nope. Helen. Helen, you're up next. Hi. Helen. Hey, Eric. How are you? It's great to meet you. Oh, you too. Thank you? It's great to meet you. Oh, you too. Thank you so much for this time. Appreciate it. Let's dive right in. Why don't you start by telling me what you're working on? Sure, sure, Eric, and thanks for asking. Well, Jovial actually rescues software developers from pointless sales calls by vetting potential projects and clients. Okay, let me try to parse that and make sure I understand. calls by vetting potential projects and clients. OK, let me try to parse that and make sure I understand. So you offer leads to salespeople? Yes, we go a little bit deeper than that. Pretty much at the end of the day, we're providing their own business development rep or sales development rep, depending on what. So it's like a contract or outsource salesperson. Like I'm an engineer. I built some software. I don't really want to do the sales myself. So I hire you to do the sales or hire your company? Yes, somewhat like that. Pretty much I help software development consultants. So they're already in the whole business ownership role. So they code too, but they want to really be more efficient with their time. So they use Jobio to kind of like start those conversations with potential companies and projects and just really qualify both the customer and the actual product. qualify both the customer and the actual product. And would you say that your service, is your product a service or is it software? It's both. It's going to be both. So it will be a SaaS tool that can help them streamline their own sales themselves when they don't need us to be in the conversation, but also it's a service as an add-on. Cool. I think I get it. What stage are you at right now? I'm sorry. What stage is the company at? Have you launched your product? Do you have any customers? Yes, we launched. We have some customers that we actually are campaigning customers in a pilot. We have some customers that we actually, actually paying customers in a pilot. So we are testing out some theories, testing out some processes, failing, but also learning along the way and improving along the way. Cool. No one failed yet, so I'm just, fingers crossed. How can I help? What's on your mind? Sure. Yeah, I was curious, through your experience with Pebble, I was wondering maybe you could provide any insight and advice on managing and also balancing customer expectations, order fulfillment, and also without skipping a beat with sales. So I'm trying to do those thinly. So it's like how to organize your time, how to plan what you work on next, right? Yes, in a way, but also just really, because I'm in a pilot, so I have to manage those customer expectations and make sure I deliver on the value prop right at the end of the day. Absolutely. But at the same time, I also need to continue sales. You know, I need to nurture those incoming leads. And then also just delivering on the value prop. That's the order fulfillment, you know? So my general recommendation, like companies, like this is a totally normal problem, like as a founder. Are you a solo founder or do you have other people? Yes. Yeah, so you're doing everything you're like coding you're building the site you're doing the sales you're helping the customer the heuristic that I use generally is to try to get as many sales as possible to get as many customers who you who are paying money in exchange for using your product or service, and then switch into how do I fulfill this? The error here usually is to try to build too much process and too much product before you actually have a customer who's paying to use it. And so if you set your first goal to be get a paying customer for something, and then you flip into, okay, now that I have this customer, how do I make them as happy as possible? How do I, you know, build the service? How do I deliver the service to them so they're happy? How do I make sure that they tell their friends? So as long as you're doing that, as long as you're bringing in a paying customer first, you always will be working on the right thing because generally the customer knows what they want. You can assume that they're going to lead you in a direction where other customers are as well. Yeah. Okay. So let me ask you this. How are you going to get, when are you going to get your first customer, paying customer? I do have my first customer. I have paying customers already. Oh, you do? Sorry, I misunderstood that. Okay. I have paying customers already. Oh, you do? Sorry, I misunderstood that. Yes. Okay. Yes. So I do have, I have a pilot and they're only, they are all paying customers. Okay. So that's where I'm... So how much does each customer pay you? Is it a per, is it a monthly fee or per transaction? So we did a one time fee just for the pilot. Okay. So that way I could work out some kinks and see what's working, what doesn't work kind of thing. And so, yes. Okay. So one of my recommendations here is to be as transparent as possible with those first customers on what success looks like during the pilot. Do you have some metrics that the customer has outlined to say, you know, here's what a really good successful pilot will look like? Okay. Is that a question or is that what you're saying? A question. Yeah, for you. Like, have you talked about that with your customers? So, regarding, we had to find the metrics of success kind of thing. So it was more of like we made the agreement we could find our metrics and it was for me to go out and do that, right? Okay. So as I proceed with that, I started seeing that certain expectations they had wasn't really in reality. It wasn't matching up. So, okay. So I would bring that up with the customers soon to make sure that they can, that they can expect kind of the reality that's going to happen, that you're going to deliver for them. Because the next step after that is once you're aligned, once their expectations and your ability to deliver are aligned, you want to work through that pilot as quickly as possible so that they turn like they're happy. Like presumably if their expectations are close or exceeded by what you're delivering, they're going to be happy, right? And then you say, you're happy, we hit all of these things that you really expected of this pilot, now we got to flip this over into a paid monthly recurring service because that's your goal, right? You don't want to have just a bunch of pilots. You want to have like all these customers that just every month they pay you, you know, or they... Exactly. Yeah. Cool. Gotcha, gotcha, or they, yeah. Cool. Gotcha, gotcha, gotcha. Okay, okay. And one of the tricks that I've seen some companies use is they've actually put that language, the success criterion, in the pilot contract so that it's very clear on both sides what success looks like. And then when you hit those metrics, when you dazzle them with how good your product is, it's a very easy conversation to say like, hey, remember we talked about what success looks like and I blew it away. So it makes sense that we should do this as a full-time contract. And they're like, sure, yeah, OK, let's do that. Everything's working. Let's sign the full contract What's your goal for the customers I have in my palette to close or be close with those potential projects or at least be a little bit farther along in the discussion. How many people do you want to close in the next two weeks? How many people do you want to close in the next two weeks? So if I can... I have two that I really focus on that I really want them to close. Let's get two. Okay. In two weeks, I'll email you or you will email me and let's hear about those two new deals. Okay. All right. Helen, thanks very much. I'm really glad to get the chance to chat with you. Oh, thank you, Eric. You have a beautiful day. You too. Okay, thank you very much, Helen. Next up is Cogni. Let's look for drow. Any ideas which one drow is? Oh, there we go. Hello. Thank you very much, Sean. Oops. I think you've got the YouTube on, Joao. Do you mind closing that? Oh, yeah. Okay. Cool. Hi. Welcome. Hi, Eric. How are you? It's great to meet you. Let's jump right in. Why don't you tell me what's the name of your company and what is your one-liner? What are you working on? Yeah, my company is Cogni. We have a tool for cognitive psychology. It connects patients with their therapists using a technique called Disfunctional Thought Records where the patients record their emotions and their thoughts, and then their therapists can understand the pattern of their thoughts and deal with this during the sessions in person. Okay, so that was quite a long one-liner. I'm going to try my best to kind of repeat back to you the key things that I heard. And it's not meant to be like an evaluation of your company. This is just like a good chance for like someone else who just heard the pitch to just kind of repeat back to you what I think I heard. So I heard that it's an app that connects patients to therapists. Sounds like it's also got some journaling component or logging that they then may use during their sessions that they have Is that it okay cool what I was missing from this usually during that kind of explanation is like what is the problem and How do you solve it so you were very Like, I certainly was able to tell you what the app kind of does. But I didn't get a sense, like, is this for the therapist, or is this for the patient? Tell me who it's for. It's for both. The thing is that the cognitive therapists already use during the beginning of their treatments, a technique called the dysfunctional thought records. This is done usually in paper. We made a tool for digitalizing this. Okay. So you're taking something that therapists and patients already do and you're making it digital. Yeah. Okay. Cool. What stage is your company at right now? We launched five years ago as a side project and we grew organically with a free version up to 150,000 signups. And we have around 7,000 new signups every month. Okay, so signups, whenever I hear the word signups, it's not usually a good sign. Because signups, like, nobody makes money from signups. They make money from active users. So how many active users do you have on the app? Two years ago, we launched a premium version of a dashboard for the therapists, where they can track the thoughts of their patients. And we got around 200 subscriptions, monthly subscriptions from therapists, and we have 45 active subscribers today. Okay, what about on the free app? How many What about on the free app? How many DAUs or MAUs do you have on the free app? We have about 20% of user base activity in the month. How many people is that? It's about 30,000. OK, so that's pretty cool. The reason why I wanted to get specific about that is oftentimes, as I'm hearing from a new company, I kind of want to get a sense for what stage and what kind of scale they're working with, because the advice that I would give will kind of be tuned specifically for where you're at. So it sounds like you've got 30,000 MAUs on this app, but then you also have a second app, which is the one that you're starting to charge a subscription for. Is that correct? Yes. Yes, yes. There is one app for the end users and there is one for the therapists. They're charging the therapist. Oh, I get it. So the therapist uses the app and then it talks or it connects to the app that the patient is using on their side. It's like a dashboard just to manage their patients in this dashboard. GARY GENSLERMATERIOUXXA. Got it. Cool. I'm on board. How much do you charge per month, the therapist? It's $13 per month. GARY GENSLERMATERIOUXXA. Cool. And we are trying to change the monthly subscription to an annual subscription. We started to do this like two to three years ago. Okay, for new subscribers or for people who've already subscribed? We got one new subscriber annually. We're trying to convert our current users into annual paying users. Okay. How can I help? What's on your mind? So what we did so far was all basically these customers we got were all organic. We never tried to actively sell anything. We just started to focus full time on the project some months ago. And I don't know exactly how all this attention that we have with the app and convert that into paying users. So just to make sure I understand, you're trying to think, how can I take the large number of free users you have on your plan and start to begin the conversion to paid? OK, so it's a good problem to have. It sounds like many people would love to have 30,000 MAUs, so congratulations on getting it to the spot that you're in. Thanks. I think one of the things, do you have analytics like Mixpanel or Amplitude set up in your app? We have Google Analytics, but I would never bring the page. Yeah, so I would begin to make sure that you've put the correct instrumentation and analytics into the app so you have an idea of how the users are using the app. One of the things that I would look for is how many people, based on the usage that they have, like the number of notes that they have, like the number of notes that they take, or the pattern, maybe they take notes every week or every two weeks, I would start to begin to see how many of the people already have therapists? How many are using it as if they have a therapist already? 20%. SAAD ALI KHANNABISWAMYIHARANIYIHARANIYIH. 20%. How do you know that? We looked into the database. We have someone who have a therapist, we asked for the email of the therapist. Oh, OK. How many emails of therapists have you collected? 30,000. 30,000. 30,000. These are from patients who've seen. Some from patients and some are therapists that sign up for the app. And then we ask them if they are end users or therapists or psychiatrists or students of psychology. We make this segmentation with the sign up. So have you begun to start, now that you've launched the subscription and you have 200 people or something on the subscription, have you begun to contact the people on that list? Yes, but before we are not asking them for their phone numbers. So we have to contact them through email and ask for the phone numbers to be able to interact with them. And we have the phones of maybe half of them. How many emails have you sent out? So we tried two weeks ago to launch an email marketing campaign. We had a really bad conversion rate. Yeah, I was going to ask, what's the conversion rate right now? We send about 17,000 emails and maybe 500 only open day mail. So we are thinking that there is something wrong with the configuration. Yes. So I would begin to start trying personal reach outs to these. Like, there's basically two kind of ways to talk to customers. One is talking to them at scale, like talking to 15,000 people at once. And then the other way is to talk to them almost by hand. people at once. And then the other way is to talk to them almost by hand. And this means like YC always talks about this thing, doing things that don't scale. And the reason why we talk about it all so often is it's like a secret advantage that founders, that startup founders have that big companies just couldn't have. Because we're startup founders. We're willing to pick up the phone to make a $13 per month sale. Now, it doesn't make sense to do that at scale when you have tens and hundreds of thousands of customers. But when you have 20 or 30 or 200 customers, you can pick up the phone and sometimes close a deal in a 10 minute call. So have you begun trying that? You have the phone numbers. Have you started phoning some of these customers? Yeah, we started. And what's your conversion rate when you talk to someone on the phone? We're trying first to convert them into annual subscribers. No, I don't mean people who are already subscribers. I mean like someone that you just phoned up and then. There's new ones we didn't it yet. Okay, so that's what my recommendation would be. You have phone numbers. I'm sure you have a couple hundred phone numbers. I would try to start with the segment of therapists that already have clients who are using the app. You mentioned that you're collecting the information from some of the clients to say, here's what my psychiatrist or therapist's email is. I would start by contacting those people. And I would say, hey, we've already seen that there are several of your patients who are using our free app. Did you know that they're using it? You can ask them, maybe they did know, maybe they didn't. Then you could walk them through and explain all of the benefits that the therapist would get if they just paid $13 to kind of aggregate their clients that are already using the app. Okay. Sounds like a plan. Yeah. I mean, again, a lot of these things are just very, like, you can hopefully do this today. Like, you can, I don't know what time zone you're in, but it looks like there's still light outside. It's 4.20 p.m. can, I don't know what time zone you're in, but it looks like there's still light outside. Yeah, you got time. So you can make a couple calls and see if, like, what I would start doing on these calls is taking notes and saying what are the words, what are the sentences that I use that actually land that the other person, that resonate with the person that I'm talking to. And then every call that I do, I improve my pitch because I'm getting feedback kind of in real time. Like I can talk to the person, I can ask him like, does that make sense? Is that a feature that you would use? Is this a benefit? And then you like, every call, you just get better and better. And by the 10th or 20th or 30th or 100th call, you're like really good because you've done this 100 times. And at that point, you can actually use the data that you've collected during these one-on-one calls to then improve your emails. So like right now, you don't get any feedback. 500 people open the email. 17,000 people don't. Once you do a couple of these phone calls, you'll get the feedback that you need to actually make the emails better. Perfect. What's your goal for the next two weeks? What do you want to accomplish in two weeks? The goal that I have, that I have, since I started school, is to have annual subscriptions. A-R-R. How many annual subscriptions do you want to sell in the next two weeks? Two. Two? No. I think you can sell more than that. How many things? You have hundreds of phone numbers. Yeah, maybe four. Four? If I have to do one by one. How many did you sell in the last two weeks? I think it was two. Okay. Well, you've got to sell more than you did in the last two weeks. Let's say ten. Okay. Can you do ten? In the next two, okay. In the next two weeks. Okay. Okay. Send me a tweet when you hit ten. Okay, perfect. Cool. Send me a tweet when you hit 10. Okay, perfect. Cool. Thanks very much. Good to meet you. Nice to meet you. Okay. Next up is... Let's look for Philippe from Hotspot. There's a company named Meme Party. Okay, we'll get to that. Philippe. Okay, Philippe. Can you hear me? Great to meet you. Let's dive in. What's the name of your company and what are you working on? Yeah, so we are a hotspot and we help hotels promote their business by matching them with vetted travel influencers. Okay. Match hotels with vetted travel influencers. Yeah. Okay. So it's... Can I go deeper into the explanation? No, no, no. I got it. You're an influencer marketplace for influencers who want to stay at hotels. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Cool. And I think I can visualize that. Hotels go on. They say, hey, we're this beautiful hotel in Portugal who wants to come stay for half off or something. Yeah, indeed. Well, there's different types of collaborations. Yeah. You know, it can start with a barter deal, which is a complimentary stay, or it can be the immediate discount, as you mentioned. What... There's some paid collaborations as well, of course, with more bigger... What stage are you at? Yeah. What stage are you at? Yeah, so we have launched in summer of last year. And then we started with a list of hotels and travel influencers that we kind of seeded our MVP. The hotels were for free in order to test our product and to get feedback of what we've built. And since then, we now have about 2,500 travel influencers on the platform. That's awesome. And about 200 hotels, and out of them, 25 at the moment are paying customers. And how do you make money? Yeah, so we make money by selling a monthly or yearly subscription to the hotels to have access to the platform. And that's actually the 100% of our revenue comes from that at the moment. So you don't take a percentage of the deal? No, not at the moment. Because also most of the collaboration actually that happened are partner deals, so there's no payment involved. And there's not really a lot of opportunities at the moment for us to make money via that channel. But I assume down the way as the community grows, there'll be more of those opportunities as well. OK. How can I help? What's on your mind? Yeah, so my question was actually, because we are focused right now on hotels and there is quite a lot of interest and we do have some leads as well in other companies in the travel sector such as you know airlines tourism boards it can be also like you know travel products or accessories and we do have some leads but the question now, do we start chasing those opportunities already while we don't really have product market fit yet? Or do we focus on hotels and try to get that? Well, let's try to see if you have product market fit. Product market fit and then expand. So what is your growth? Like, what is your primary metric that you're tracking right now? Is it revenue? Yeah. Yeah, indeed. How fast is your revenue growing monthly, month over month? It's kind of a small amount at the moment, so it varies a lot, but I would say it's about 5 to 10 percent, which is not amazing. Have you tried making your weekly goal to grow revenue in one specific domain? You mean in type of hotels? Yeah, type of hotels, exactly. Yeah, yeah. We do see that actually most of the hotels right now that sign up for our platform and use it. It's also, I think, due to our current sales strategy, which is called Outreach. It's mostly smaller properties that sign up, and those are also properties that don't necessarily have any access to travel investors. Yeah, because they just, and you're talking about, is this mid-boutique level kind of not? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's basically owner-owned, so it's not like a huge organization behind it. Most of the times, you know, even if you email the info address, you're gonna get the owner of the place. And do you have, like, do you offer them a free trial? How do they know that this is gonna work for them? How do you build trust with them? Yeah, so we offer a free trial. We offer a free trial, and right now it's a 14-days free trial with no strings attached. And afterwards, if they find value, if they get some connections and collaboration requests, they can choose to sign up. And do you work your ass off to make sure that they get one during that 14-day period? Yeah, yeah, absolutely, absolutely. We, of course, try to promote it once they join our community of travel sponsors. Because you can basically make sure that they're happy. You can engineer it so it's not random. You poke the influencer until they check out that new hotel, right? We try, but of course there is also value and not only like, you know, quantity, but the idea here is also to have high quality. Well, what if you, so what I'm thinking of is a segmentation strategy here that honestly, like not all hotels are good for you, right? There's a ton of crappy hotels. Like you want to get the right hotel that's going to be the right match for your influencers. And when you find that hotel, there's a great blog post by the founder of Superhuman. You might have read it. Yeah, I've read it. It talks a lot about like diving deep into segmentation and understanding that your product is not meant for everybody. Not everyone can get a great benefit. So I would think hard about setting up a strategy to run experiments on a two-week basis that allow you to say, I think that maybe a hypothesis you'll test is, I think that Latin American, we're really doing well in Latin America and it's really doing well with owner operated places that are at beaches that are less than an hour away from airports, et cetera, et cetera, that have like one stop flights to the US, et cetera. And then you say, can I test the hypothesis that conversion rates in my calls will be higher for this group of customers? And then once I close the customer to the two-week trial, I actually, I know that this is a good match with influencers as well. And then could you create a list of influencers that you have on WhatsApp and you're just like, hey, this hot new property came up. You've got to check this out. It's guaranteed to be a great ride. They're going to hook you up. And then you just kind of send the right people, almost like manually running the marketplace for a while. We do have a bit of an idea of, as you mentioned, what is this kind of ideal segment. For example, we have quite a lot of properties from Indonesia, especially like Bali, or like South Africa. I want to go to Bali. That would be amazing. There's also like a decrease in value that the hotel can get as more properties from the same region join. So I don't necessarily mean the same region. I meant the same like type. Because here's what my next recommendation would be. Once you've identified that segment, I would spend two weeks going hard. And when I mean hard, I mean like how many calls did you make last week? So right now the strategy is code outreach, read just email, and once people show interest, we follow up with an email and stuff like that. But I would say about five, I think. Okay. Every hotel has a phone number. That's the beauty of a hotel. You could be phoning up people. I talked about this just a second on the last Office Hour I did. The beauty of doing a phone call over email is that you get real-time feedback how your words and messaging are landing. Now, it's a bit tough in, like, a foreign language. Like, I don't know how good your Indonesian is. But getting onto a call or, like, you could add them on WhatsApp. You could do a video call. Like, there's a lot of things that you could text them. All I'm trying to do is like encourage the amount of outreach, like to boost that number. Like you did five, I wanna see like a hundred. All right. And I think with that, you'll like, you run the experiment, you say, my hypothesis is there's this small segment that's gonna be really like, really good for me. And then you create a spreadsheet with 100 properties, and you phone them all up. And then you test your hypothesis, because maybe you're wrong. Maybe none of these are interested, and you strike out 20 for 20 calls. People just constantly hang up. At least you know the answer. You will know the answer after 20 calls. It's either going to be going really good, or or you got to find a new market. Because that's the trick. That closes the loop. So you have the hypothesis, you test the hypothesis, and then you plug that back into your process and you say, okay, next week, this went great. I talked to 20 people, 15 of them signed up for the free two week period. Then I like, I got all these influences on, they're having a great time. And then the next week you're like, okay, I'm going to do 200 calls and see if the same conversion rate holds. Yeah. All right. Okay. What, what's, what's the hypothesis on which segment you're going to go after? So like is it Southeast Asian? Yeah, I think definitely that's a region of interest, as I mentioned, South Africa. And I think it is indeed. It's mostly smaller properties that don't necessarily also have the big budgets to hire a full-scale PR company. Yeah, and you could be their first spend. Yeah, indeed. Do they spend on Facebook already? Hotels? Yeah, the ones that you're going after. Yeah, some of them we've seen it, but not a lot. I think pretty much the biggest channel, sales marketing channel for most of the hotels is just booking.com. That's it. You could take a lot of spend if you start bringing in more traffic for them. That's great. Yeah. Cool. Well, send me a tweet in like two weeks with how many calls you did and how many converted. Sounds good. We'll do it. Philippe, thanks very much. Thanks for your time. No worries. Good to meet you. Okay Sounds good. Thanks very much. Thanks for your time. No worries. Good to meet you. Okay. We're going to look for Joan from Clinic Price Check. Joan, hopefully, has a phone number. Joan C. Rodriguez. I think I saw that, yeah. JCR, Hi, Diana. Can you hear me? Hi, this is Diana. Hi. Hi, this is Diana with Dreamlist. Great to meet you. I'll put in the feed with you. Let's dive right in. Why don't you tell me what's the name of your company and what are you working on? So I'm Dana Zink. Dreamlist is an online wish list and registry for families that lets them add not just any item from the web, but also larger things they're pursuing, from classes to bigger purchases to bigger pursuits. And on special occasions, friends and family could put small amounts towards their bigger dreams instead of wondering what trinket to get. So it's like a wedding registry, but for actually useful things. It's more like collaborative shopping, actually. It started, the beachhead was the wish list and registry, but we're seeing more and more very interesting use cases. And we've turned it into a collaborative app where multiple people can manage a list. So parents can manage a list for a child. Or you could see, we're seeing teams manage shopping lists for entire companies. And more importantly, we're seeing foundations who are now shopping for direct giving campaigns for families that have lost their house in a fire or Christmas. So kind of like a U-Funder or a WeFunder? No, direct giving. So we're not crowdfunding. No, I understand. It's just like the same kind of use case, like you need to rebuild. It's more like there's this foundation called the Spock Foundation that funds single moms, buys Christmas for single moms in the Bay Area that are nominated by the community. So they nominate 70 families last year. Before that, it was 50. Before that, it was 30. Okay, we're getting a bit deep into that one. Why don't I ask, what stage are you at with the company? Have you launched? Do you have customers? It's launched. It has about 17,000 users. Okay. We're making money. What's the business model? How do you make money? That's the fun part. So right now we're using affiliate as our revenue model. So the whole purpose behind Dreamlist, I'm a parent. I created it after I became a mom. And I did it because advertising is the main consumer business model of today. The problem is it's very corrosive, and it's really bad for kids. So I wanted to build a company that can replace advertising with a better, more aligned with users business model that they can, by the time they get to that stage, they can use as their online community instead of the current leaders. And if they get to that stage, they can use it as their online community instead of the crowd leaders. Okay. This is all really interesting, but it's a lot of information. And I'm just reacting. I'm trying my best to put it all together. And while I really appreciate that it's clear that you thought so much about it, it's a little bit, just telling you frankly, it's a bit overwhelming as someone hearing it for the first time. I'm trying to think, is this an app that I should consider using with me and my friends, or is this something for foundations that I should introduce you to other people? So just FYI, my initial reaction is try to keep it a little bit more focused, especially if you're talking to someone who's like never heard about this, you know, at all, and I'm just like really quickly trying to come up to speed. So let me let me ask you, so is it like a website? Could I could I go to it? Yeah, dreamlist.com. You can go dreamlist.com right now. I will. dreamlist.com Okay. Meaningful wish list and register, Achiever Creams, okay, Funded Dreams. I don't know if you can see it, but I'm just browsing through your website right now. I don't track my users the way... No, no, I mean, I meant like through the Zoom call, I'm sorry, I don't know if you can see it. No, I can see it. So my initial thought from looking at your web page is that this is for individuals who just want to do it for themselves, like for the birthday, Christmas, wedding, baby shower. That's the end. That's the end. That's our direct market. So you were saying, you were getting into like how you make money. Do you make money from, if I started a wish list, how would you make money? So we are aligned directly with our users. We don't do advertising like every other wish list or registry. We're not a store. So you take the affiliate fee. Anytime you add an item, if the item is added from an affiliated retailer, like Amazon or Target or Walmart, whenever someone buys you the item, we make a small affiliate sale from the bigger retailer. Okay. We don't dictate which items are bought. We don't influence your purchasing choices. We have a listing of retailers. Yeah, cool just, yeah. Cool. So what's the problem? What are you working on? What's tough right now? So there's a number of different things. First one is consumer startup like ours who want to not do advertising. What would you recommend for them? Have you seen successful alternative business models? Is affiliate, affiliate seems to be kind of a subject of ridicule by some investors. Maybe it's not been scalable in the past. Honestly, as an investor, I would say screw investors. You should be building your company for, you know, to build a fantastic company. Like that's the real goal here. And I love your vision. Like I love the mission that you're trying to pursue, especially like the intention. So I wouldn't like worry about what investors think. I would worry are you building something that your customers want? And I think I agree. Like there's a website called Wirecutter, which has a very similar model. They make 5% of the recommendation. And I think it's true. It aligns your goals very clearly with the user. So that's great. How much money are you making? So it's not a huge amount. It's exceptionally varied. It's close to $10,000 right now. Okay. A year. A year. Okay. But it varies wildly. And it increases every year, obviously. So do you have a good sense for what a successful, like for you, success is someone comes on, they build a wish list, they get other people to sponsor the wish list, and then they eventually click a link to buy something, right? That's a success. Have you experimented with like walking backwards through the data to figure out who are the best for you, the people who click that link? Walking backwards, like can you tell me who are the ones that become perfect users for you and the people who clicked that link. Walking backwards, can you tell me who are the ones that become perfect users for you and result in revenue? So you've nailed it on the head. I've dug into the data. We obviously have a lot of families. Grandparents are actually joining Dreamlist and inviting all of their friends and family. So those are our power users. And on the other hand, there are lots of them. Let me be very clear. So what I'm specifically interested in is not the power users from just usage. I'm talking about people that produce real revenue for you. Foundations. So of your $10,000, what percentage came from foundations? It's a little hard to track because we're not getting the money directly from the foundations. All comes through the affiliate revenue. Well, can you track backwards? You know which link was clicked because you get the affiliate. Can't you figure out backwards which campaign that came from or which list it came from? Most of it is probably a third of it is from foundations. So that's really interesting. And like looking at your website, I don't see anything about foundations. So I'm kind of amazed that they're using it. They're finding us entirely organically too. The more interesting question, I wanted to dig into your specific experience as someone who's manufactured a product, and I'll be on the other side of it. See affiliate right now, if we dig into that industry, because of the ad blockers partially, a lot of affiliate networks that are not Amazon have been mistracking. See, as a wishlist, I get to see who bought what and I get to see what the affiliate network was bought. And there's a huge discrepancy between what Amazon tells me about and I get, which is great, that's actually fairly accurate, versus any other affiliate network that has a different domain. So cross-domain affiliate does not seem to be working anymore. And so you, as a manufacturer of a product, have you used affiliate when you were making a product? What margins were you able to give to retailers? Unfortunately, I don't have much personal experience from my companies, but I do have experience from companies that I've worked with. So I see affiliate as a real business model. I think there have been some companies that have proven to create functional, profitable businesses based off of that. But they really rely on closing the loop on the data cycle. So understanding where like eventually, like it's kind of like what I was talking about before, which are the types of lists that result in clickable revenue for you? And then figuring out how do I engineer it? So the front, like the front end, the top of the funnel is pretty, is like more and more of those really profitable projects are coming and starting lists on Dreamlist. Yes. So we started – I've actually – I get an email every single time a user joins and shows me their email address. And, for example, yesterday the YMCA joined, and they're trying to do – they're going to be doing also I reach out directly to the people to the users as soon as I see something interesting or in general to get their input and especially with foundations to get features that they need specifically and I would go out onto those I've started to do a lot of SEO on that SEO is kind of our cream of the crop marketing strategy but there's a lot of the tracking. Because we're trying to do privacy, we're not sending data to any retailer. We're not sending out data. That's OK. I mean, but I would just make sure that you yourself are tracking this. Because you can't, like unfortunately, your business cannot be built without data. You need to be able to segment and understand. So what's interesting is that on your website, you don't have a landing page that specifically talks about the benefits for, say, foundations. We do, but it's at the bottom that I'm... Yeah. How to run a toy drive. Yeah. So I would start, I see that now, and maybe that's like something you're doing for SEO. Oh, cool. So you do have landing pages built here. Oh, yeah. The issue that I see just pretty briefly is like it's very similar to the other stuff and you have a lot of text here at the bottom of the gift drive page. Help me visually. You actually have a lot of text all over your web page. So I would try to switch to some images or maybe like a flow that says, you're a foundation. You run a gift drive every fall or every Christmas for kids. Here's the three step process to use Dreamlist to run a gift drive. Then I can understand the benefits without having to like read through a pile of text, which as a lazy person I will not do always. Part of it is Google changed its SEO. It's fine to have the text for SEO, but once I click on it and once I get there, I don't want to read a bunch of text. Does that make sense? Yeah. On the inside, it's very intuitive. Yeah, but you got to get the person onto the inside. Yeah. Okay, cool. Well, it's great to meet you Diana. Congratulations on the success. What's your goal for the next two weeks? What's your revenue goal or like what's your goal that's closely linked to your revenue? So baby registry is a very, very big category that spends money year-round. We're going to break into that with SEO and other tactics. And what's your goal? That's how I'm trying to increase the... Well I understand that revenue may be delayed because, you know, once someone... What's your new... Like how many new baby registries do you want to get in the next two weeks? Ideally. What's your goal? A bigger, a higher percentage of what is being created right now. I'm looking for a number. How many registries? So I would say 10 registries a week, 10 baby registries. How many did you get in the last two weeks? Less than that. A lot less? Like zero? Well, about two or three. It's really seasonal. It's very different. Well, babies aren't seasonal, like you said. Exactly. Babies are seasonal. They tend to be. And it's a very competitive space, especially in the baby registry. But the problem is competitors are very commercial, and they're usually not working in the best interest of the parents. interest of the parents. Yeah, again, looking at your website, I don't get that. I really loved your vision, and you have this intense, you say this at the bottom of your web page. It says, Dreamlist is the first free, privacy-free, ad-free online wish list. That's totally cool, and it's buried basically in the footer of your website. Well, a lot of our visitors are not direct users. They're visitors who are visiting Wishlist, so they get to see the photo a lot more than they get to see the landing page. I don't believe that. The front page is all about people who sign up, right? Sure. And you don't even say your primary feature above the fold. Yeah, I guess we should put it up. I think you should experiment with putting it up there. Yeah Okay 10 10 10 new baby registered in the next two weeks Will you send me will you send me a tweet when that when that comes through? Okay Twitter is a little bit better for this and it keeps you it keeps you honest. Everyone's gonna see it Cool Diana, it's great to see it. Cool. Diana, it was great to meet you. Thanks very much. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's do Burlocks. Burlocks. Bill? I think I see you right there. Bill? Can you hear me? Are you with Burlocks? Yeah. I got the right bill. Cool. Well, it's good to meet you. Do you want to start by telling me what is Burlocks? Yeah. Burlocks.com helps you set and hit your goals. We've helped people lose weight, get jobs, and make money to pay rent. Wow, that's a lot of different things. So it's like a habit, something to help you get better habits? No, it's not habits. It's a framework to help you hit your goals. OK. So it's a goal-setting website? Or is there actually something that I just type my goals in there, or does it help me actually hit them once I type it in? Yeah, sure. So I talk to each user every week to set goals and make progress and keep them accountable to make progress. So it's like a personal trainer to hit the goal. Yeah, yeah. Each person works with me to trainer to hit the goal. Cool. So that didn't come across completely. You spent a lot of the time in your one-liner talking about the types of goals that people can set when the actual interesting thing is that you're working directly. Do you just text them or message them? Call them, yeah. You're getting into their life. You're helping them change. That's pretty cool. What stage are you at right now? So we have 15 users at 220 MR. Cool. Congratulations. That's pretty cool. And I'm guessing that these users, they're pretty sticky? Like once they... Yeah, definitely, yeah. They stay... So our product is two things, right? I'm one part of the product and our website is another part. But to me, they're very sticky to the website. They're a little bit less sticky. What do you mean by that? So for me, they come to the call every week to set goals. And I also like text them midweek to check on their progress. But we want to make the website the place where they come to set their goals, track progress, you know, do other stuff on the website. Okay. To that, they're less sticky. Cool. So what are you working on? What's tough? What can I help with? Yeah. So for the last six months, we did things that don't scale. So I would, again, call each user every week to set goals and make sure that they are accountable to make progress. So again, we hit 15 users, 220 MR, and we figured out we couldn't scale past that, right? I couldn't take on more calls. What do you mean? Did you try? Did you take, like, 16 and it broke? Yeah, it was really... So each... The average phone call lasts 30 minutes. And we set calls... We call on Sunday because the beginning of the week is a new week, so you set goals for the new week. So that was pretty hectic. So that day was pretty hectic. Have you tried doing calls on other days besides Sunday? Yeah, I mean, we've done like Sunday, Monday, up to Tuesday. By Tuesday, they have to set their goals. But I mean, ideally, we think it should be Sunday because that's like the... So tell me, like, were you not able to find more customers beyond 15, or when you found the 16th customer, things started to not work? I think it was just for one person, for me. It was difficult to manage all of those calls. Have you tried hiring someone to help you do the calls, like just a friend to help you do calls on the weekend? Yeah. No, we have not. But that's kind of our question for, like, how to scale. Well, the tough part is, like, thinking about the metric, the economics here, you're charging around $20 per month. And if you do four half-hour long calls, that's two hours of FaceTime every month. That's two hours of FaceTime every month. And if you pay someone $10 an hour, that means your company's not making any money. And $10 an hour is not that much. So how are you going to fix this? This is a pretty major problem. Right. So once we hit that, we tried a few things that didn't work to scale. They didn't work. But now we have talked to the users, we got their feedback, and essentially we want to try two new models. One is the coach model, where we would connect the user who has a problem to someone who can help them solve the problem. So someone looking for a job, we would connect them to a job recruiter. They would work together and make progress. We would take a cut from that. Or two, we would, it's called the family and friends model. So family and friends are awesome, because there is already a pre-existing. Yeah, so you have a network who also want to help you. Right, right. You already know the person. You already trust in them. So we were thinking we could leverage that. We could connect them every week, have them talk, and then set goals. And they come to the website. They enter their goals on the website. They track their progress throughout the week. They can see each other's progress. So that's a pretty different product. It's more like a social goal sharing, like keep me accountable, hold me accountable to this. Have you launched that yet? We're building it out now. How long is it going to take to build? Well, March 1st we'll launch. Okay, that's like another week. So are you going to market this to the existing customers or are you going to stop doing the manual process and just try to get customers on the new product? Yeah, so I will re-engage, I'll talk to users again and then we're thinking of running like for a few weeks, for four weeks and then after that they would, so in that four weeks we again would set goals and then after that they would pair with their friends and family. Yeah, the thing to consider here is that both of those two businesses, the first business which is the manual, I'm going to give you a call every week to keep you honest, and the software that lets your friends and family participate in your goal setting are very different. And I would be wary about like, the risk is that if you run both of those businesses, you may do a bad job at doing both of those. Whereas if you've just picked one of them and you spent all of your time going crazy hard on just making one of them work, you might be successful. The risk is if you spend half time working on both, it's very hard. It's like, it's possible that both will not be successful because of that. So you have to make a decision. You may have to make a decision pretty soon. Like, do I keep charging people $20 per month and doing the calls on the weekend? Or do I just say, like, hey, guys, now actually it's free. Or it's, like, $5 a month. But you've got to enlist a gang or, like, a crew that helps you do it. Right. Right. We want to build a second model. Okay. With friends and family. Cool. So what's the plan? How are you gonna get a lot of users? How are you gonna find your first users for this? Yeah, so we have users now and then, so it's 15 now and then we would pair them, they each would find like a friend or a good buddy to do it with. Both of them would come in and both of them would be paying, right? They pay for the platform. Why would the buddy pay? Because they're setting their goals too, right? It's a framework for them. Oh, that's if they sign up to actually set goals. If they're just helping their friend. OK, got it. Right, they both would have to sign up. Cool. Do you have the first 10 people that you want to send that to? Yeah, yeah, sure, yeah. Have you talked to them? Yeah, so we spent these last few weeks just thinking through the problem, just selling the problem down. But yeah, we're building out now. And we are reaching back out to users. But everyone is. It's a really cool product. It actually really works well. So people are . Wait, so you have launched that, or you have not launched the new one? So for six months, launched like me and like yeah, I got that Okay, so you haven't much it okay cool, so what's your goal for the next two weeks Cool send me by launch you mean just like post it on the App Store or actually have users using it? Uh, no, just have users using it. How many, how many users do you want to have? Um, so we have, uh, how many users do we want to have in two weeks? Yes. Um, let's say like 20 users, so it's 15 and 20 now. But you, but are you going to move the old people to the new thing? Like the 15? Let's say like 20 users, so it's 15 and 20 now. But are you going to move the old people to the new thing, like the 15? Yeah, sure. Okay. Well, you've got to get some new users because now it's much easier to do. They don't have to do the calls. They don't have to pay $20 a month. Are they going to pay for it as well? I mean, so the two people would pay into the platform, but they wouldn't be talking to me. How much are they going to pay? We're thinking about seven. They would pay for the software. Cool. So you have 15 customers today. You think you only want to get five new customers? That feels low. Yeah, yeah, sorry. So, I mean, ideally it would be 30, right? So 15, so 15 old and 15 new. 15 plus. Okay, Ideally it would be 30, right? So 15, so 15 old and 15 new. 15 plus. OK, cool. Launch the app, 15 new customers. Yeah. OK. Yeah, awesome. Sounds like a good goal. Yeah, awesome. Yeah. Anything else? We've got a little bit more time, but if there's one last, any other questions that I can help with? Yeah, sure. So the problem to that is that it's a little bit like of a high entry to barrier, a high barrier to entry, right? Where like we couldn't go to sleep at night and then wake up with like, you know, new users. Someone who has to sign up, they would have to like bring along their friend and both of them would have to pay into the platform. Do you have any advice for that, like how to get around that? How to get, so the biggest thing that you need to consider is will people understand the value that they're getting from this? Like you're only gonna get people to sign up if they like, if they can begin to like think, I can visualize myself using this, and I think that with my friend's help, I'm gonna be able to hit my goal. The worry that I have is there's a lot of competitors in the space, like this feels like something that I can do using say like social, like a friend group with like 10 people on a Facebook group or, you know, a messenger group. So I would spend most of my time at the beginning talking directly to people, friends and family and people that you know that have problems that they want to hit and, like, manually getting them started. you want to hit and manually getting them started to the point of driving over to their house, taking their phone out, watching them use the app. I'm talking literally sitting next to them on the couch. They show you the app and they're like, oh, here's my name, putting in the thing. Don't assume they're going to do it by themselves. Don't assume that people are just going to ... You can email them and they'll magically start using the app. Like you need to make sure, like, just because you're moving to software, doesn't mean you can avoid doing things that don't scale. Like you need to put some of what you've learned doing these manual calls every Sunday to work, to kickstart and get the app kind of going. Right. So it would just be like doing things that don't scale but it's like less. We just solve like the bottlenecks and then it's like less. Yeah. Like you're going to still need to do things that don't scale to onboard people. But once they're on the app, that's when the design of the app that you made where your friends and family start helping you, that's when it takes off. And then eventually, you'll learn how to do the in-person setup. Maybe you do that over the phone. And then maybe you have a website that helps people set up automatically. Or maybe there's a YouTube video. But at the beginning, you just got to do it yourself. There's no way around it. OK, perfect. Yeah, Eric, thank you so much. ERIC M. Thanks. Cool. So that was a bit of a taste of what it's like to go through office hours, I guess, with a YC partner. I hope it was useful. I tried to keep the kind of topic, the things that I talked about general so that anyone who's in the audience who may have a company that has a similar problem could still take some of that advice and consider applying it to your startup. You know how I kept talking about this two-week goal thing? That's because every time we meet with a company that's going through YC, I always ask them, like, what's your goal for the next two weeks? company that's going through YC, I always ask them, like, what's your goal for the next two weeks? So that when I talk to them in two weeks, I see, did they actually achieve it? Because even if they didn't achieve it, it's possible, it's highly likely that they learned something important about that process, and that for the next two weeks, they'll make a new and improved goal. Cool. I hope this worked out. We could probably do this again next week. I'm sorry I didn't get to every company on the list. There's also a lot of companies in all of startup school that might want to do this. So yeah, we'll hopefully do this again next week. Thanks very much.