 Nope, not live. Almost live. Now we're live. Okay. My name is Eric Medjikovsky. I'm the Startup School Course Facilitator. Welcome to another live Q&A. We're joined today by Dalton. Hi, how's it going? I'm Dalton Caldwell. I'm a partner at Y Combinator. And in addition to my partner duties, I run admissions. He's in charge of figuring out who gets into YC. So today we're going to talk a little bit about, we'll answer some questions that you asked about Dalton's video lecture on pivoting and the YC admissions process. Let's dive in. First question from Danielle at SquidBio. At what point does pivoting turn into actually shutting down the company you're working on and starting a new one? Usually Founders are too willing to start a new co and Just think about in terms of amount of work you have to do it's much easier to just change your idea with the same of work you have to do, it's much easier to just change your idea with the same Delaware C Corp that you created if you use Clerky or something like that, or if you use Stripe Atlas, and there's no need to redo it. I think the major reason I've seen someone creates a new company from scratch is there's like legal liability on the old company or- Yeah, there's some lingering problems that you might have. Yeah, there's like a really, really good reason why. company or some lingering yeah there's like a really really good reason why um but for the most part um you know it makes sense to keep the same cap table to keep the same investors and it's like a waste of time this is an example of like work that is not productive work yeah because it's not going towards a bunch of entities and like talking to lawyers and this is a great example of things you could spend time on that are not work and you can also like you don't have to change the corporate name right away. I remember that Jawbone was called Aleph for like ten years before they renamed it to jawbone like this is totally common So I think in your case a Danielle you were saying that you have some grant money and you're already incorporated I would recommend just like sticking with that like there's no harm Plus like the main goal is to find is to get the product market fit. Yeah, spend time on that part and not on the corporate shell game. I don't know. This is something you could spend a lot of time on, and then it has basically zero value to whether or not your startup works. Yeah. Next up, Peter from Whiplash Gaming. Whiplash Gaming is an interactive watch party platform for esports. Stalton, you mentioned in your video that founders might pivot to avoid hard work like sales. How would you make the judgment call between the product not being good enough, justifying a pivot, and the sales efforts not being good enough, justifying a different strategy, different channel? So it's totally the case that there are good startup ideas that aren't right for the founders. This is the founder market fit thing. And so it doesn't really matter if the reason is the founders are bad at sales and will never get better or it's a bad idea. Those are kind of the same thing. And so you want to watch out for three levels of hypotheticals. Like sometimes when founders end up in a hypothetical land about why the thing isn't working, again, this is an example of something you can spend a lot of time on, have a lot of conversations about within the co-founders, ask a lot of advice. And it's not working. And so spending too much time diagnosing it, I would argue, is not great. And again, I hear where you're coming from, but sometimes there's really great startup ideas that require lots of sales expertise. And if that's not what you want to do, it's not going to work, even if it's secretly a good idea. Also, at the early stage, sales is effectively talking...is identical to talking to your customers and responding to their direction. So if you can't get past that first stage, that's probably more of an indication that maybe the idea is not one that's picking up steam with customers. Have you seen any cases where very clearly the founder market fit is unaligned and there's a structural problem to getting to that next stage? Like say you've got a couple customers some early users I just see a lot of times where there's founders whose primary modality is writing code and maybe they can talk to other programmers but they end up with an idea that involves like selling to insurance companies or something and they really struggle which is like why so many great founders are solving a problem that they themselves have. Because by definition, they are the customer, they're really close to them, and they also know how to solve them. Next question from Matias at Estelar. Hey, Dalton. This question's for you. OK. We're now pivoting after realizing our solution didn't solve the problem we were addressing. Yet, we're still trying to solve the problem as we believe it's a big one. The problem that they're solving is 40% of returns on clothes are because they have the wrong fit. So, we're now launching it as a discovery tool that shows clothes on your body for new and used clothes. On one hand, we're concerned that we should only focus on new or used clothes, but we also feel that a discovery tool should have both as 50% of shoppers shop for either one. Do you think that we should start with just one or offer the full range as an MVP? Yeah, so if I were doing office hours with a company and they asked me that question, my answer would be, I don't know, what are your numbers, what are your sales and the reason is you can end up weaving this really complicated web of conceptualism about we think this we think that and it's if the current product you know has zero users zero revenue zero traction I'd be like well just go get anyone to pay you a dollar like and I would make one purchase on the platform in either type and it's so tricky when I talk to people and they have these really complicated intellectual arguments and they're like, well, we don't really have any customers per se, Eric. It's like, whoa, how did you end up with this super elaborate theory of the market and you've gotten no customers? And so maybe that's not the case. The numbers aren't in here on this question. But I usually encourage folks to try to make metrics-based decisions about if they're like, should I do A or B? You look at your numbers. And it's much easier to not get caught in conceptual land when you're doing that. And what's also true is that we see companies across a wide variety of domains, products, technologies. We see companies across a wide variety of domains, products, technologies. Interestingly, this kind of advice actually works at a meta level above the particular thing that you're working on. You really can't go wrong with finding a few people who want to buy the first version of whatever you're making and incrementally add on top of that. And the best time you know when to pivot is you just fail to get one customer. One live customer really using your product. That's the bar. If you're below the bar, it's not even a real thing. And if you're above the bar, then you can have a sophisticated conversation. So in this case, I wouldn't be too worried about whether your product offers everything at the start. I would worry more about can you describe what you're doing in such a way that it gets a couple people excited right at the beginning. And they really use it, not just excited. They're like, yeah, oh, it's returns for retailers. Let me put it live. Like, let's do it. And you can say, well, we've done 100 returns. Yeah. OK, we can work with that. And even if it's just used or even if it's just new, either one, as long as you have some degree of traction, then you can iterate and work with that. Yeah. Next up, Julia at Marble. Marble is a collaborative learning solution for teams. Automates learning, turning assets like links to courses, videos, and articles into a learning plan. Cool. I think I get it. Question is, how do we know if we need to pivot the design functionality of the product or continue searching for the right user? Okay. Well, I would first say, is anyone actually using it? Does the product exist? Did you build it? So many times I talk to people, there's like a continuum. There's people on this end of the spectrum, which they pivot constantly, but they never actually make anything. They just talk. What they mean by pivot is we talked about it. And then there's the other end of the spectrum where you write code and you build a product and it's been live for like a year and it's not working. And so it's a wide continuum. So one kind of actionable thing that I offer to founders here is to set up experiments that they could run in usually about a week or so. And you can run experiments on the product side by either adjusting or changing the actual landing page or the things that your product does. But you can also run experiments on who you're trying to attract as users. So for example, you could lock your product in and say like, because every good experiment has a control. You don't change both things as you're running an experiment. You don't change the product and the user base. So maybe you say, okay, the product is doing good. We have five or ten users. It's going okay. But we really want to explore to see if teachers are the right people or whether it's parents or whether it's whatever. And you could set up an experiment so over the course of a week you say, I'm going to try to get 20 customers in this new customer segment. And then at the end of the week, if you hit that, it's a pretty good sign that you're on to something. And if you like totally fail and you get like zero or two people, well, maybe that's not the right group. The tougher part is when you hit in the middle. That's always a bit more difficult. And let me push, there's actually a subtlety in the question. The question in one part says, well, when you pitch the idea to people, they are very excited. However, when they test it, they're not finding the use case for themselves. So there's a whole variety of ideas that are very exciting. And I would call them mirages or something. And so let me give you an example. Eric, I have a startup that makes delicious food. It is the most delicious food you've ever had. You love it. You're excited about this delicious food, right? Why wouldn't I? That does not mean this is a good startup idea. Eric, would you like free money? Yeah, I think I'd take that. Yeah, I'm excited. And so, oh, Eric, don't you wish you didn't have to work as hard and you got more work done? These are like leading questions that pretty much everyone you ask the question to will say yes. And so if you phrase this particular idea as like, we're learning a solution for teams, would you like your teams to learn more? Or better or faster. Yeah, of course. That's not actually validating. That excitement is not actually a startup idea, in my opinion. And you have to turn it into an actual product. Yeah. And usually it's a problem that they're having in the course of trying to have better learning. So Eric, do you want your team to learn better? Well, let me tell you about what I have. I have a learning tool. It costs $20 per user per month. It's a Slack plugin. And what it does is it sends them daily reminders about whether, you know, with daily lessons, would you pay for that? I'd consider it. Like I'd have to test it. That's a pitch. Like the second part you really need in there, which is to offer a concrete product and solution and ask for money, the second part is what you need. The first part is not ... It's so vague as to not even really be a startup idea. You could run that in one of your experiments. You already have these people who are casually interested or excited. You can try to put people on point and say, okay, we talked to 20 people. How many of those 20 people are actually willing to pay us just for our mvp yeah and you get an answer pretty quick you're seeing a lot of this right now with remote work everyone's pivoting to remote work stuff i get why um but just saying we're doing remote work that's not a startup idea like everyone's saying that you have to turn that into here's the thing that we make and how it works and And until you nail down the specifics, you just saying we're doing a remote work startup is like not, it's not going to get validation. People will tell you they're interested. They'll be like, oh, that's very interesting. I'm very excited about remote work. That does not mean you have validation on your startup idea, you know? Yeah, cool. Next question from Joey from the company Nurture. Pivoting mobile apps is a lot easier and less painful than, say, building rocket ships to Mars. What are some of the best tips for hard tech companies to avoid wasting time and money to avoid a pivot later down the road. Yeah, so we've funded a lot of hard tech companies. We have together, in fact, in a group. And I think you want to think about this in terms of risk. And the biggest risk for a software company is they don't make something that people want. And that is the most, you know, when we see our cause of death, that's pretty much it. They spend too much money and they don't get the product. Yeah, it just doesn't happen for them, okay? What's harder about hard tech is you have this other kind of risk, which is financing risk. And that is to even show up, we need this amount of capital. And whether or not the product is good, whether or not people want it, like there's all these things that apply to software that you have this additional financing risk thing. And so if you don't have a plan around financing risk, and I would love to hear your thoughts. You're an expert on this. Like that's going to, you need a plan from the get go. And even having tons of consumer demand, even having prices, even having Kickstarters, I'm Yeah expert here Even have like lots of people give me money kickstarter if you have financing risk It's gonna be tricky so to kind of dive in on this Financing for a hard tech company is not just about paying for the engineers and the people who are working at the company It's also creating a business model in which customers can actually buy the thing that you're building So we have a bunch of companies that are using robotics to solve Labor saving activities in the workplace like this is a really hot subject and we've invested in a ton of great companies But one of the things that we always talk to or talk about with our kind of hard tech let's say robotics companies is figuring out, once you've designed this product, we have, so for example, a company that picks, a company that makes a robot that picks tomatoes from greenhouses. So it drives along the greenhouse and picks tomatoes. They had to work really hard to build an arm that would like find the tomatoes. They had to build a vision system that would process it and figure out which tomatoes are ripe, and then they had to improve it to make it faster than an actual human so that it actually made sense to use as a product. One of the things that they did really well is they were super lean, they managed to do all of this on a couple hundred thousand dollars, which most people when they think of hard tech, they think like millions of dollars of R&D. You don't really need to spend it. We need a warehouse. We need a lab. Yeah. You don't need to do all that. You can actually hack together a pretty good even hard tech company. And then what they did is they talked to customers. And in this case, this is greenhouses. And they figured out what was the buying time frame. How did they allocate money? How did the greenhouses run their budget? How did they do their profit and loss? So they actually built a model that was almost better than the greenhouses actual financial model to understand like who is paying what and where were the actual ROI opportunities. And then what they did is they said we're going to build this robot, it costs like X amount of money to build and then we're going to charge our customers in such a way that it fits into their budget, into their line item. So if you're a hard tech company and you're thinking about how are you going to finance this from customers, you have to consider how do they earn money? How can they pay you? And then potentially even find people who will finance it or give you loans because the customers aren't used to paying that much money up front. I think that's great. And final thoughts, everyone looks at Tesla and that's the shining light of people that tried really ambitious things. And I don't know if everyone knows the story, but there was a time where they had a big financing risk and basically Elon leveraged himself. Well, no, he put all his money. Yeah, there was a time when like he took his entire net worth, which was sizable at the time, and put it into the company because they would have died otherwise. And so it would be very hard to bootstrap. Like what's tricky about certain startup ideas is no amount of the idea being good can help you from financing risk. You need to figure out the whole story. It's hard. And You need to figure out the whole, the whole story. It's hard. And so, yeah, the reason we get to enjoy the fruits of Tesla these days is there was all these times they almost died, maybe like half a dozen. But they didn't. You needed like an act of God to keep the thing financed. Yeah. Anyway. And just to touch on, sorry, to touch again on the question that you're asking. So it's like, how do you avoid a pivot later? The So it's like, how do you avoid a pivot later? The main way you can do this is by validating that customers actually want to buy what you're making, very specifically. Yeah, the Tesla Roadster. OK, so people bought the Tesla Roadster immediately at a high price point. And remember his secret plan? You can Google this. The idea was to start with a very high margin,-end thing that you could just sell to basically his friends Validate the market validate that people that they could actually build it and then and then they wanted it and they would give money for it Wasn't a hypothetical car and now you know, they scale the thing up There's if he started with a model 3 It's like another way to think about it. You can have this large vision of where you want to go It's like another way to think about it is that you can have this large vision of where you want to go, but try to figure out if there's like even an MVP of like a hard tech product that you can deliver. Elliot from Unify asks, what is a good way to pitch a market opportunity when a standard total addressable market slide would show all users who take pictures. I think the question is getting at how do you provide subsets of products, of markets that you could reasonably say everyone could be interested in? I don't think you have to. I guess it comes up if an investor says, oh, well, what's your TAM? But when you're at a really early stage, it sort of doesn't matter. I remember one time an investor gave a talk that I attended, and they were talking about Uber's TAM. And when Uber was very small, it was only these cars, like limos, basically, like private cars, black cars that you would... And they did a TAM, bottoms up TAM of the number of black cars in San Francisco and how much Uber could charge. And I think the TAM, it was something silly like $10 million. And it just shows how this particular exercise... Or Airbnb. Yeah, the TAM was like... Airbnb, what's the TAM of people who want to sleep on other people's floors when they go to conference cities? It's pretty small. Yeah. And so we have all of these stories. I think what we're saying is that like the investor who's asking that is asking kind of like a bullshit question. Yeah. And what they're really saying is, I don't think this is interesting to me. And like this is a nice way to say it is, oh, I'm worried about the, this is really great, but I'm worried about the TAM. It's just a nice way of saying, I don't want to invest. And the best way to combat that is to have the overall company seem exciting in numerous different ways than thinking you can debate them with a really good TAM. Or here's a potential like path that you could take people down. I always love it when founders are actually like, it's counterintuitive, but when they're actually like very specific about the market that they're trying to go after, because then I can visualize their product being used by that market. And then like saying they could easily knock this out of the park. Like if you go after that, like no one else is going after that. And then you get into this conversation where the investor is actually saying, well, actually it could be used for this category. It could be used as well. And as the founder, you're like, obviously, I know this. Like, I've been thinking about this. But it's this more back and forth where the investors like actually like generating ideas and kind of participating in it. Okay, we got a YouTube comment. These are always great. Trey asks, what are the largest best sources for case studies that shows kind of before and after pivots, are there any metrics that we should use to track, like, should we pivot now, or are there any, like, generalizable rules? I don't know about a library of case studies, and probably the best equivalent of that is literally this. It's startup school, because in my talk, I'm not aware of there being other people that have talked about this in this level of detail. So I think this is as good as it gets, unfortunately. In terms of triggers, it's usually where you're either working on an idea that is not falsifiable and it requires you to work for two or three years. I'm exaggerating. But for a very long time with no market feedback, that's a pretty good trigger. Maybe you shouldn't do that or you have been doing it and It's just every turn a goose egg like zero customer like the most it's so it's so funny how many people The signal to pivot is just like literally no one will use it. Here's that's it. That's the bar Here's one of the triggers that I use when I think about products. And it's if there's always like two, like if you give it to people and they always say like there's two more features that they would use before they actually become regular users. That's still a no. It's like, it's basically, and you do this for like three cycles and there's always two or three more things. Like if you're designing a product that's meant to be used on a regular basis and they use it for a couple of days and they churn out, that's a really strong sign. Yeah. For a consumer product, the null hypothesis is people sign up, they poke around with it and they never come back. For most consumer-related products that don't work, that's 80% of signups never come back. If you're better than that, then that's interesting. And where founders kind of... Where there's an easy mistake to make is that if you're missing like some people who use it despite the flaws, like then you're onto something. Then you maybe shouldn't pivot. Then you should actually like continue to improve it. Because if you've got something that has all these flaws, that's like blemished and it's hard to use and has all these bugs, but yet there's like two people who just like keep using it that's a really good sign and that's probably one that you want to like keep pursuing and working on without kind of pivoting completely off yeah and again the triggers are usually just you're in this situation and you've created a complicated narrative for yourself about why it's actually okay that things aren't working. And it's like a prison that you created in your own mind of, yeah, I'm just going to keep writing code for nine months and eventually, you know, the ship will come in. Like that's the biggest trigger is that you're in this elaborate... And you can always talk to people. Like I think one of the things that founders need to do is get comfortable with the idea of talking to each other about how far along are they actually to getting the product market fit. Ask your friends, ask other people that are working on it. I'm sure they'd be willing to weigh in on that as well. Okay, quick question about the YC application process from Matt. If I'm in the process of a pivot or considering a pivot, should I mention that in my YC application? MATTHEW WALKERMANN- Yes, we have the other ideas section on the application where you mention other ideas you're excited about. And I think it's fair game. It depends on how serious you are. If you're even not serious at all, I'd still put it in the other ideas section because those are usually pretty interesting. And I think it's, if you're saying, you know, if the primary application is about your primary idea and that there are subtleties about the go to market, like say you were, you know, we want to build a new analytics platform. We're not sure yet if this should be B2B or blah, blah, blah, or what industry it wants. I wouldn't even call that a pivot. I think it's okay in the application to enumerate that you haven't exactly figured out the market yet or that you're open to a few options. That's pretty different than having this really disjoint application, which I don't recommend, that would be like, we're doing vegan dog food and also satellites. And somehow you're trying to explain them both at the same time in the application I would Usually pick one pick the one that you like the most and have that be the primary part of the application and put the other one the other ideas and is that like is that because we have YC we don't really like We're not looking for perfectly formed startups here. We're looking to find founders. Yeah, and it's when it's very disjoint It's's just hard to make sense of what the deal is. What about having two applications? Should founders ever submit two applications? I don't really recommend it. And the reason is you're sort of hoping that we can pick which one is better. The main reason you would do that is it's a way to be like, well, whatever one they like better was the one I should work on. I don't know. Put your best foot forward. Well, and do the thing you're actually excited about. That's the thing we want to fund. And actually, before I forget, there is a, I just remembered one. All right. So last startup school, there was a startup in it. I believe they were. They're called PostHog now. And I can verify, I don't remember how much they did, but I'm pretty sure they did. And they definitely watched all these videos because they told me that, so I know that. And we funded them for a different idea. So they're in YC right now? They're in YC right now in the current batch. And they pivoted to a new idea mid-batch. And they wrote some blog posts about the whole process. So if you're looking for a case study. Yeah, it was on Hacker News last week I think they talked about startup school. They talked about the interview with me. I funded them. And they talked about the office hours I had with them when they decided to change their idea. And frankly, that's probably the best pivot I saw this batch. So you can read the whole thing. Just to give a nutshell of what the idea is, is they built an open source self-hosted analytics tool that you could run where it comes from a first party. Like if you're familiar with third party analytics, they all come from like Google's website and other people's websites. Those look sketchy and slow down your site and they're blocked by ad blockers. PostHog is this open source thing you can run on your own infrastructure to get the benefits of analytics without the downsides. And when they told me about it, I was like, this is great. How fast can you build it? And when they told me about it, I was like, this is great. How fast can you build it? They could build it fast. They had customers lined up day one. They had built it at their prior job. It was one of those things where, as per my pivoting talk, it was. RICK VISCOMIUCCIA- They're building something that they themselves want. DAN GALPIN- I was like, wow, this is awesome. And then they had a great During YC, we will fund companies. We will give them $150,000. We will be like big fans of the idea, big fans of the founders and everything. And then during the course of three, four weeks of like us really working with them to try to find like early customers, they realize they come up against that wall. And they're like, it's not working. Yeah, and he talks about this in the blog post. But in this case, the reason they decided to change ideas was they had traction for their first idea that they applied to them and we funded them for, but they never really asked for money, Eric. Yeah. And when they started asking for money, all of this excitement evaporated, right? It was actually a nice to have, not a have to have. And so they failed to do that pre-YC. They didn't want to charge. They were afraid to charge. The minute they started charging, the whole thing just evaporated. So this happens, just to put some numbers around it, this happens to dozens of companies in YC. And it's totally normal. In fact, it's like sometimes this relief because they've been working so hard and they're up against this wall. And then they change ideas or change markets or something. And it's just like this basically wall of water just rushes over and it feels like it's working. We've got another quick question from Dan. Is it harder for a social app to get into YC than a B2B app? I think it really depends on what you have. I don't evaluate things as, oh, this is a social app or this is a B2B app. It's sort of, is this an interesting thing that has done something different? And the founders have smart things to say. The issue with social apps for the most part is it's just very crowded and the differentiation exists primarily in the founder's own mind. It's not like they have users that prove that it's differentiated or traction or that it seems, you know, we see a lot of like dating apps and it's just like another dating app. And the difference is, and it's like, you know, everyone wears hats. I'm exaggerating. But it's like, it's the differentiation that to me is meaningless. Yeah. But to the founder, they're like, no, but no other dating app has had this hats feature. This is a really big deal. And, you know, that's... And if they launch an attraction and they can demonstrate it, like, sure. That people really want a dating app with hats. We'll take that. Yeah. And so you see a lot of apps that are like, oh, well, this is like Facebook and Instagram and also privacy and also TikTok and then also with your friends. We just see so many of these things. Crypto. Yeah, you got that. Oh, we're going to do this existing thing on the blockchain. And maybe, but for the most part, the excitement, these things are not launched. And it's mainly the founders being really convinced it's a good thing than there being any evidence from the external world. Usually with B2B, it's easier to get first customers. And we're used to seeing a B2B app. Hey, we have our first customer. We're live. They're paying us $100. Great. That's fantastic. One of the cool things I think about YC as it's grown is that we also have more and more partners. We have something like 10 to 15 partners and visiting partners at any given time. We all read applications and we each have different brains. So you apply like there is an expert in your domain who's like really excited about reading applications at it. I guarantee that pretty much every startup that can possibly apply will have someone at YC who's like actively interested in that domain and seeking out applications. So we actually in the system that Dalton and his team built, we actually have like a search feature where we can search for applications that just have keywords. And I do this all the time, like searching for cool things that I wish would exist and I see if there's people building that. And so I would not stress over whether it's easier as a B2B company or guarantee that YC in general is interested. Yeah. I mean, to give you a sense of the bar for social apps, if you're someone in the audience building one of these things. Look, often the people that build successful social companies have built and shipped things that maybe are even toys or side projects. I don't even know what you call them, not companies, and gotten millions of users. And so even if you know the Facebook story, when Zuckerberg was in high school, he built this Winamp plugin. He. He built this little music plug-in. That Microsoft wanted to buy. Yeah, it got millions of users. And so he was always building little things and getting lots of users. And when I've successfully funded folks working on social stuff, they usually extremely know what it means to make a thing, to put it out there, and to grow it. And they're pretty sophisticated. They know what it takes to build an app with a million downloads. And they've done it before. RICK VISCOMIUCCIA- Even if they're not charging for it, even though it's their business model, they just built something. CESAR GAVIDIA- They have this sort of, they're sophisticated about how hard it is. And they have some evidence that they've made stuff and given it to people project. It's trickier when you see people that have no experience ever delivering software in any form, in any context, wanting to do consumer apps. And it's like you don't know what you don't know, I think. So if you're one of those people out there that wants to do consumer stuff, I would highly encourage you, just ship anything all the time and develop a philosophy on what kind of stuff that you put out there works versus thinking you're going to create one thing once it's going to be the perfect thing and it's going to take over the world that just doesn't map to any reality i've seen um maybe there's counter examples but but of social apps usually the founders that really make something good reliably have tried a few times and have a very sophisticated internal strategy about what works and what doesn't have tried a few times and have a very sophisticated internal strategy about what works and what doesn't. Got another question from Early. We think it's time to pivot. How do we explain this to our current investors? Okay, well, this would require more context to give you a good answer. So don't over listen to just this one piece of advice. But for the most part, sophisticated, good investors will be like, great. We're behind you 100%. Let us know how we can help. And good luck. Sometimes that's not the case. And it's very context dependent. And you sort of need to talk to them about it. And depending on what terms or whether it was a convertible note or a safe, there's different legal ramifications about whether or not they can ask for the money back. Yeah. And I've seen it in both cases. Like if you still have the money and you haven't spent it. If you already spent the money, the answer is pretty clear. They know the game. They invest in the company. Like that's what investing is like. If you still have the money, then you possibly could say, maybe I don't want these people on my cap table anymore. They're a biotech investor, and very specifically in that, and we're going after consumer social apps. So in that case, you can always consider making the offer. They might let it ride. They might just keep the money in. But at that point, you kind of need to decide, like... The famous story about this is back in the day, Odeo was a startup that existed. And they had several investors. And they offered the money back because Odeo didn't work. It was like a podcasting thing. I see a lot of those these days. Yeah, before smartphones. It was like podcasting. And I think about half the investors took the money back and half didn't. And then they pivoted into Twitter. Yeah. And so anyone that left the money and made a lot of money and the people that got their money back felt pretty stupid. You could share that story with those investors. Yeah. So basically, because that happened, it's like bad luck or something. That story alone scares people to never ask for their money back because of that one particular story. And you know. RICK VISCOMIUCCIA- And it's usually the right call. If they invested in you as great founders, presumably you're going to figure something out. We've got another question from Rahul. Can I apply to YC when my idea is in a different market than the US? So we've been working on something in Germany, but I'm not sure too much about the market in the US. Absolutely. Something like 40% of the current batch is targeting a market outside the US. Exclusively. Exclusively. So yeah, this is our bread and butter. We've, yeah, sounds great. We've had fantastic success with companies like this for one reason. We invest in people who have an idea or who have built something special, who are experts in the space. We're not usually experts in either the technology, the product, or the geography that they're operating. But what we are experts in is connecting to Silicon Valley, raising money, figuring out how to pitch your company, connecting to the network that we've already built. That's what we can help with. So we have companies that come to us from India, Africa. Just to shout out some concrete names. In India, I interviewed and funded Razorpay, which I think is the second largest payment processor that you, the audience member, may even use. I interviewed those guys and funded them. And it worked. It was pre-launch, but they had the basic setup. Rappi was a company that I interviewed and funded. And in Latin America, they're the largest online to offline company. They're basically in every city and they're very big. We've had Southeast Asian companies. We've had Nigerian companies, Indonesian companies. So one of the things that you can do to help us do our jobs better is to provide some context around the problem. So oftentimes if there's a problem that's specific to your geography, we might just not be too familiar with it. So bring it up, feel free. We love to learn things, especially about interesting, different things in different countries. So take a paragraph and kind of frame the problem, explain like the context. You can assume that we are not going to be familiar with it. Yeah, in the case of Razorpay, I remember at the time there was a complicated two-factor authentication thing for doing digital payments in India. And that's why, yeah, and so it was like, they had to educate us a little bit about that and that explained why it needed to be its own startup and not just a multinational from the US moving into India. OK. Let us look through here. Here's a quick one from Natalie. She asks, for a B2C app, what number of weekly active users will put me in a strong position to raise money? On retention. On retention, yeah. On the sticky spot as plot is expensive. Yeah, so if you're trying to grow... I think the question is around if you're building a B2C app and it costs money to acquire new users, how do you validate that? And to operate it because they have to apply it. So yeah, okay, you know what's hard? Is when you have a consumer app that's growing and you lose money on every user. That's good old-fashioned negative economics and that can happen to you even if you're a consumer app. Definitely. Yeah. Imagine one of the reasons that YouTube needed to sell the company back in the day when they were a startup was the video hosting costs and the infrastructure costs were exorbitant. And so I don't know how much longer YouTube could have made it as a standalone company, and it needed to get acquired by someone, and it was good that it was Google, because just operating that thing was like really expensive. And so you want to have a sense... So ideally, you either want to make money sooner so that you're not just running a thing where the faster you grow, the more money you lose. That's really frightening. Or I don't know if there's an or. That's what I would recommend. I mean, Adora would talk about this ad nauseum. Yeah. Yeah. There's the counterexamples. And what's funny, another quick anecdote is the Facebook founders way back in the day, they always were profitable, according to them. They had ads on the site. And so they made it so they were never in a position where it was a huge cash burn situation like YouTube was. And that helped give them leverage. There was all these like good properties of... And it buys you time to get more users. Yeah. And so it wasn't like lots of money, but I remember Apple, they had like Apple ads. Like this was like 2003, 2004 era Facebook. Wasn't that from the movie? Like when the guy was going to sell ads? Yeah. But they had revenue, right? It wasn't what it is now, but that helped offset the burn and make it where it wasn't just the faster they grew, the more they lost money. It's just, it's really tricky. Okay, we've got some more applying to YC questions from Marina. We're considering applying to YC for this batch, and we'd like to know what your top priorities are when reviewing applications. It's her first application. Oh, you know, easy to understand what's going on, easy to parse what it actually is, and just following the advice that this whole course you're taking is, which is ... Yeah. For example, the first thing that I do when I read an application is I read the one-liner. Yeah, it's the thing at the top. Like, what does your company do? Yeah, and if I can parse it and not, like, I have to be able to understand it. And if I can understand it, that's already, like, honestly better than some large, like, surprisingly large percentage of all the applications. So if you're thinking about what, like, a priority for you to put time and effort into is your one-liner. You can do things like practice sharing that one-liner with other people, either startup school founders, friends and family, just get some more eyeballs on it. So like if we, for the first time ever hearing about your company, read it, we understand it like that. That's a great start. Yeah, and I think just to bring up like a side point, in my job here, I see or interact with a lot of people that it feels like they put a lot of energy into trying to hack the system and to figure out how to give themselves edges around the application process. And to me, that's not a great use of time. And if it seems like you're doing that, you definitely don't endear yourselves to us. And so what are the ways you try to hack the system? Sending a lot of cold emails, trying to get a bunch of fake recommendations. There's all these things that we see, and it's like people are treating this like getting a YC interview is like a lottery ticket, or it's like getting- Or like there's a game that you have to play on the side of the actual application. There's a game, and if you play the game right, and you like ... It's all about whether or not your company is good. It's about gaming the system so that you get funding. And this sucks. Not a fan of that. What we want to do earnestly is just figure out who's doing something good and do our best to fund those people. And if there's any smell anywhere of people that are trying to hack the system or manipulate the system or manipulate us or all the weird, I don't even want to enumerate them to give you any ideas, viewer. But like it just seems very much like misplaced effort. If you would have spent that effort on just like getting a customer, it's going to way more increase the odds you will get into YC than whatever complicated plan you have. Let me give you another example of this is there's all these people on the internet that have become obsessed with the view counts of how many times your YC application video gets viewed and where the people reading it are and all those things. And so we actually built a whole system to, you know, and I'm not even gonna explain how, but where our views of your application video no longer get reported to you. And so you should have zero views. And that is on purpose, because all the efforts that people put into freaking out and posting on the internet about how many views their video got is a great example of something that like... Misplaced time. Is like, why are you worried about this and talking about it and posting to Reddit about it? And so the same thing on the application, if you put a bunch of Bitly links in there, you know, probably not going to click on those. Here's the thing. You know, like just if you use Bitly links, you know. How many applications did we get in Last Bash? I'm going to rate 1,000. I forget. Yeah. We have many thousands of applications. But here's the thing. The YC partners read hundreds if not thousands of applications each. I read about 2,000 in Last Bash. Which means that, you know, we get some applications that are kind of like gibberish or they're just not fully formed. For the fully formed applications, if you put time and effort into writing your application, we will put time and effort into reading it. This is one of the like crazy things that I think gets missed a lot. We read every application that we get. So if you take the time to fully form your idea and put it down and spend the hour on paper, we'll spend like dozens of minutes. There'll be like dozens of minutes worth of partner time just going in to understand your company and figuring out whether it would be a great fit for YC. That's kind of like our problem. And so the closing thought here, and this is related to people we say during the bat, this is an overarching lesson, is you should think about it every stage. What is the actual thing you should be doing and how do you do a good job of that than trying to game the system? And Paul Graham talked about this a lot back in the day of people thought that he would teach them how to raise money well and how to hack the system and say the right words to raise money. And you know what he would say is, let me tell you the secret. The secret to raising money is to have a good startup. And so I'm going to teach you how to have a good startup. And then you can be bad at fundraising and you will still fundraise. And that's it. And it works. And again, this was the thing. This was the whole thing of Y Combinator is that it wasn't a system to teach you how to raise money. And we don't even talk about raising money. Until the very end. That's not even part of the program. The whole thing is making a company that's worth investing in. And so back to applications, your job is to make something that you describe in your application, or a team that you describe in your application, that is worth, that is good, and then we will want to fund it and not hack this system to get funded. A couple more rapid fire questions. Our idea is in the other industry, so it's not in one of the dropdowns that we have. Is there anything specific we should include in our application so it's reviewed by the right YC partners? I think we're pretty good at knowing what to do with others. That could mean biotech or hard tech or basically anything. We see some weird stuff so I would have confidence that no matter what it is, if it looks like something related to technology or a startup... I wouldn't worry too much about the category. Like, that's not the number one thing that we use to filter. Yeah, we don't do too much with those. Is YC still interested in innovative nonprofit startups? Nonprofits. What do we look for? Yes, we do. It's much harder to get in as a nonprofit. Way harder. Sometimes, again, people hacking the system, they'll try to apply as a nonprofit and then be like, well sometimes, again, people hacking the system, they'll try to apply as a nonprofit and then be like, well, actually, because they think it's easier to get in. It is not. We're looking for people that are really dedicated to making a difference and ideally using technology in some way versus just a standard nonprofit where they're getting a technical advantage to do it. But unless this is already your life's work and it's a really big deal, I would not... Like, it's just much harder to get in that way. I've noticed something really interesting. I've had the pleasure of working with a couple of nonprofits in the last few batches. One of the really cool memes or trends that's happening right now is nonprofits that have a business model. So they have some way of actually generating income that they then use to, like, invest in the operations or grow or whatever. And this gives them kind of this like, well, first of all, they can treat it kind of like a startup because there's something that they can integrate. There's a metric, there's a KPI that they're working towards. They can still raise money from donations and other things, but they have this kind of like steady state business model that's driving the company forward. And we've seen some great companies. So if you have a nonprofit that's kind of in that vein, I would highly encourage you to apply to YC because we've had great success with companies like those and we've got our eye out specifically for nonprofits like that. Next question about interviews. What are the top three things we should focus on getting across in the interview? Kind of not specific to the startup, but more of the soft skills or the other stuff. across in the interview? Kind of not specific to the startup, but more of the soft skills or the other stuff. Yeah, I think if you read blog posts from other people, like the post-hoc guys and others, and they talk about their interview, the main thing you would want to do in a YC interview is to behave like a normal human being and treat us like we are normal human beings, versus treating it like this theater of awkwardness. And so what do I mean by that? People sometimes memorize scripts. They're like, I read these blog posts, and it says I need to get my three-key point across. And so they come in, and you sit down with someone, like, hey, how you doing? And they just recite this monologue. That is awkward. And usually they soften. Most people, even if you do that accidentally, within a minute or two, you're going to fall into your normal, happy, casual self. And so I think your mental model should be we are, believe it or not, normal people. And interviews is our job. And we meet with a lot of people. And to the extent that it is a fun conversation, that it is an engaging conversation, and that we feel as though you are  is that you're behaving towards as normal people, that is highly recommended. Versus there's this over-practicing thing that happens to people is they practice too much. They treat it like a  Like a pitch. It's not a pitch. The two minutes is not actually a pitch. It's more of a conversation. The more that it's a natural conversation and that your mental model is we are normal people, we're doing our job, you're a normal person, you're doing your job, and we're having a conversation. That's the mental model I would have to have a successful interview than to get really agitated about it and treat it as a theater production or something. Yeah. Yeah. I've got a question from Todor at Nomad Players about the coronavirus. He's built a company that has in-person events as one of the primary things that they do and they organize. He's worried that due to the coronavirus, the whole event sector is going to be dragged down and that his company in its nascent stage may be affected. Any thoughts on that one? Yeah, probably it will be. I mean, remember there were the fires in California last year that affected a lot of startups. I was running a startup during the 2008 financial crash and that certainly affected my startup and everybody. I think what I remember from that era was the people that were really affected by it, there was just not much you could do. And so again, maybe you need to make revenue, maybe you need to change your contingency plans and wait it out. And for the companies that weren't affected by it, them making smart strategic decisions, often around not spending as much. Like basically when the market changes, if you can react to it quickly and flexibly, startups tend to make it. And it's the ones that don't really react that have the hardest time so I don't actually have an answer for you about what you should do but yeah you probably would want to react to that also going back to like how companies die they usually die by running out of money or running out of the ability to continue working on it so as always like spend less money and it gives you more time to iterate and to potentially find like a solution to this problem for you. Another question on pivoting, it's from garage. He's built a service business and he's trying to pivot it to become a product business. How hard is it to do that? It's pretty hard and there's different ways to define it so let's attempt to define what that would mean. So a services business could be, let's say that you have a call center, and there's a bunch of people and they answer calls, and it's a services business, you have revenue, and you want to turn it into... Let me give you a better example, in fact. We have a dev shop. We call them dev shops. A dev shop is you do contract mobile app development or web development for people. Very common. We actually fund a lot of these. And when we do fund one, it's usually that the people running the dev shop find a specific startup idea that is really good, and they use their own dev shop resources to make the thing. And then we just evaluate it as the thing. The idea, yeah. And ignore the dev shop part and usually they can clean it up by the time they get into YC. Does that make sense? Happens quite a bit. We actually fund a large number of these. And in some ways they're great because you've got a team that's worked together for a while so they know each other, they know their skills and they can actually move pretty quickly. The downside here is sometimes people fall in love too much with that idea, and they don't think about it as like, well, they actually like, they may have too large a team to work on that first idea, and then they have to pivot, and you're left with like 10 people kind of hanging out with an idea that really only needs two or three people. And you get confused around consulting revenue where you're like, you try to pretend that your startup revenue is revenue from the dev shop and like half the company is working on the product. Like there's all these like complications. Here's actually a much more common case, another case. Go ahead. It's two founders. They have an idea. And instead of building the product, they actually go and find customers who will pay them to kind of manually do the thing that eventually the product will do. And in this case, it's like we see this sometimes for like DevOps where the problem is they need to build some sort of like infrastructure. And they're experts in this infrastructure. Instead of like building the whole product, they kind of like find a customer that's willing to pay them a couple thousand dollars, like a real sum of money, and then they basically are doing cheap consulting, but they own the product that then they can find other companies to sell to. That I think we've seen pretty good success with. Yeah, and I would not call it a service business. I would just call that... Yeah, but to the founder, at the beginning, it doesn't feel like you're selling a product. You're kind of selling your time, Like you're kind of selling your time, but you're getting them to fund the development of the product that you will then sell to other people. That's like every day of the week I think we do that. What percentage of international applications get accepted to YC? Is it the same? Like an average international application will get accepted at the same rate as an average US application? Basically. Like I don't have those numbers memorized. But basically, yes. The percentages all line up, and there's not like a wild difference between them. Yeah. And again, going back to what Dalton said, like a large percentage, almost a majority of companies in YC have some business outside of the US. Exactly. That is totally normal. One other thing that I'll clarify is like, back in the old days, YC used to have this thing where it's like, they really encourage companies to move to the Bay Area, and that was like a meme that I remember as a founder, like, oh, doesn't YC say you have to move to the Bay Area? That's not the case. We encourage our companies to come to the Bay Area for three months because it gives them a chance. Like if you're living in Indonesia or living in Japan or somewhere, it gives you a great opportunity to network and to build a community here in the US. But we have companies that the minute YC is done, they raise their money and they set up their HQ wherever they came from. That's like totally fine. Exactly. Okay. Couple more. Where am I? So you know all the ones, Joan, that I should be pulling up? Oh, here's one. You could do that one. Elliot from Unify asks, does having a provisional patent for a mobile app provide value when applying to YC or when pitching investors for initial funding routes? Probably not. Patents are usually more relevant in hard tech, and it could be that there's a business process or you're a biotech company. Software patents in general are problematic. Feel free to Google that. That's a whole thing. And most people are not super impressed. In terms of things that you could spend time on that are very value add versus not, you can spend so much time creating a sophisticated IP strategy when you have zero customers and it may feel like you're accomplishing a lot. Generally speaking for software, patents are not super valuable and investors won't. It's almost like a line item that most people will ignore, unfortunately. Yeah. And so there could be counterexamples. Maybe you won. But for the most part, this is another great example of something you could spend tons of time on and it feels like work and it is not exactly work. Or it's not valued. It's as if you never did it. Focusing on an MVP, focusing on getting initial customers is going to be a way better use of your time your time like 99 times out of 100 basically. Cool well Dalton thanks very much. Thanks. Really appreciate your time and that's it for today. Thanks.