 Exciting. Welcome to another week of Startup School. I'm joined this week by Gustav. Do you want to tell us a little bit about yourself, maybe your background? Sure. So I work here at YC as a partner. I've been here for two and a half years. Before that I had most of my growth and product learnings at Airbnb, where I spent almost five years on the growth team as a product manager, and spent time on different companies before that working on growth as well. So I feel like I've seen some really good stuff at Airbnb and some really hard stuff at other companies, and that's where my learning comes from. Good Stuff also delivers several lectures to the YC Core participants during the batch on growth and is kind of the main person that our founders turn to to ask questions. So you've got the right person in the room today. We're going to take questions from the Startup School forum. We're going to take some from Twitter and YouTube comments if we have time. But we've got some from the forum already, so let's jump right in. So, Kaloin from My Education Club asks, we're building a peer-to-peer lending platform. Gustav, you were talking in the video about starting to get paying customers as soon as possible and not to use paid growth until you have paying customers. How does this work for social network platforms or platforms with network effects? So historically, if you look in the last 10 years, many of the social products were actually based on advertising. So the way that you would make money would not be to charge users, but to charge advertisers to advertise to them. What that led to is this idea that you should not try to monetize early. You should just try to grow, grow, grow. And that's sort of how many of the early products, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and many of the others that we know, Snapchat, that's how they grew in the early days. Sorry, so they were getting users to use the product and then monetizing them once they were on the platform. And nearly all of them were growing without using paid marketing. So they're all growing through viral invites or word of mouth or... LinkedIn used the hell out of email. Email and SEO is the way that LinkedIn grows. So basically, the two primary channels that LinkedIn would grow would be those two. And I would say for products to have kind of a network effect where for every user that gets on the product, the product gets better, it really matters to get to that first million or couple million users. So LinkedIn in the early days was useless unless you had some coworkers and people you connect with. That's more rarely the case these days. There are not as many companies who get started where the primary business model is going to be advertising. The reason for that is it's just hard to build a new advertising platform. I mean, that's how they make money. Correct. So the business model for companies, either you're charging users or advertising or some other business model. And there are just a lot fewer companies today that get started using advertising as a business model. The main reason is it's extremely hard to compete with Google and Facebook. They are the best advertising platforms. And it's difficult. It's not like competing with TV or newspapers anymore. You're competing with two really great companies. So most companies probably shouldn't be going after that business model, which means they're going after a different business model, most likely charging your users in some way. And if you're going to charge your users... I guess Twitch would be a good example of something that's like a relatively new business model that evolved after the ad-driven kind of placement. They enable creators to actually charge money to, like streamers, to actually charge money to people who are consuming it and they earn, you know, a percentage of the transactions. Right. So to go back to the question, how does this work and how to not use paid growth? So I would say there's only two ways you can really use paid growth as a way to grow your company. You either have an ROI calculation, that means you know how much money you make back from every user you acquire with paid marketing, or you don't. If you do know how much money you're making back, you can scale paid growth as long as you're making enough money back to pay back the money you spent on the marketing. If you don't know how much money you're making back, you can't really grow on paid growth. And everything you do is- You could, but you just spend all your money. Everything is just like an experiment. But it's a very time-boxed and limited experiment because it's just not a sustainable growth. And no one's going to want to fund you unless they, I'll come up with how I'm going to make money. I don't believe that's going to work. And I think that's this sort of failure mode for startups these days. Next up, Michelle from Critique Match asks, is it good to focus on growth as much as possible before implementing a monetization model that might hurt growth? So a monetization model that hurts growth doesn't seem like a very good monetization model to begin with. Obviously, you are going to want to align the way that people get value from your product and the way that people pay for your product. If you're paying for, say, unlocking features, then that's not like the best model. It'd be better if you pay for something that actually is very aligned with repeat usage or retention of your product. What are some examples of companies that we've seen recently that have implemented paid monetization in still a company that needs to grow that's not at scale yet? So I think the truth to here is, let's take The Athletic as an example. The Athletic is a YC Fund company. They're doing really well. They are building an app for local news. And the app has a subscription feature where you really can't use the app and read this news from 150 journalists in the US unless you pay them every month. And the truth for mobile apps and for many other companies that are trying to grow is that paid growth is every year becoming a more and more important part of the growth mix, the composition of how you're going to grow. Back in the days, people would look down on paid growth and say that's a negative way of growing or that's not a good way of growing. And they would usually say that because it's sort of like... Because you think that the product's not good enough if you're trying to get people to... Yeah, but the truth is that if you look on the two platforms through which most of our attention is at, Google and Facebook, they have shifted their tactics dramatically in the last five years. And it's very hard to get free growth on Facebook. If you look on search on Google, the first four or five listings are going to be paid ads. So what those platforms are doing is they're trying to monetize your usage, which means as a founder of a new company, you should lean into that and try to figure out, how can I grow sustainably? The problem with doing that is you end up paying a tax for every new user that you get to these two platforms. But the reality is that some of the platforms that we know about, a big portion of the growth are coming from these two platforms. Instagram, Facebook, Google are a core component of the growth. If you look at something like Airbnb, search marketing through Google was always very critical to our growth strategy and is extremely core to many other travel companies. And that's unpaid? That's just SEO? It's a combination. It's a combination. But what you can tell from Google is that Google is not innovating as much anymore as they used to, which means there are, in order to grow the revenue, they have to kind of increase the paid links, and that's what they're doing every year. So to grow organically on Google is getting more difficult as well. So back to the question, like, the monetization model that you implement can't really hurt your growth, and it should be there early so you can optimize it and then use that monetization to grow. Otherwise, it's going to be difficult to say, like, it's going to be difficult to grow organically from the beginning. Like, you can do that to a certain level, but I would argue that there are, there's certainly a set of ways to do paid growth sustainably, but that requires you to make money. And I'll kind of synthesize a couple of things that Gustav said here. So by putting in a paid model early, you're beginning to get knowledge about what your conversion funnel costs. And so if you know how much money you're going to make per user on your site, that gives you the ability to experiment more effectively with paid marketing because you know how much money you're going to earn on the other side. If you don't have that, then as Gustav said, you're just running these experiments that don't really have viable outcomes. You can't actually benefit once you learn how much it costs. So let's take The Athletic as an example. I don't know how much they charge per month. Let's say they charge $15 a month for their subscription for local sports. If you live in Toronto and follow the Toronto Maple Leafs, you might be targeted with an ad on Facebook saying, download the Atleti app and get local news from independent journalists on their app for $15 a month. Because they know what the conversion rate is for that click that comes from Facebook, and they know how much each click is roughly worth, they can actually scale up paid marketing and do it pretty effectively. This is an example, but this is how many companies today are growing. This ties in pretty well to the next question. Surin from Ivanka asks, what tools or software have contributed to most of the success as a product growth leader? Like, what are the CRMs that you use, lead gen, lead automation? So every company and every category of company is going to have a different set of tools. So if you're a consumer company or a SaaS company or a hardware company, you're going to use different tools to measure the product. I would say at the very basics, you want to know what's going on. And knowing what's going on for most companies means having some kind of event analytics. So mix panel or amplitude or segment or some combination of those or heap, those are all good tools that you can use for the very basic stuff in the sense, how many people are coming in? What are they doing when they come in? How are they flowing through my product? If their core flows in your product, like an example of the athletic, what is the onboarding and signup flow, what's the payment conversion flow, what is the returning user metrics like? Those tools will solve all that for you, and at the minimum, those are the things that you need. Google Analytics is typically not enough for most companies. It will be good for Google-specific stuff, but I would recommend something like Amplitude or Mixpanel. You can use Segment to integrate those two. And that's kind of like a baseline. Like it's pretty hard to find a company that shouldn't have, whether you're building SaaS, whether you're building enterprise, whether you're building even software that you're individually onboarding the first few users, you do want to have that baseline analytics that you can always reference. Yeah. And then depending on this, and this goes from day one. This you put in from day one. Then depending on the stage of the company, you use different tools. So like you're not going to do automated sales tools until you're at the stage where you can automate sales. In the beginning, most of the times you're going to be doing things that don't scale. And I recommend you to read that Paul Graham article on how to do that. You're not going to solve your sales problem in front of your computer necessarily, if that makes sense. You're trying to find your customer, and fail your customers, but over time as you're still building things out, you can start to sort of like build, use tools to build these repeatable things that you do. But most people that are asking for these tools in the very beginning are probably not thinking about it right. They should probably just go out of the office and meet their first 50 or 100 customers and get to know them more than trying to interact with them through a tool. Here's an example. I was talking to a founder, a YC founder the other day, and they were asking about how to automate their email system. I was like, how many emails are you sending out? Or who's the target for these emails? And they were like, oh, well, it's actually other YC founders. And I said, whoa, like that is totally not the right direction to go. At the beginning, when you're forming like an individual, when you're selling, just send the email from your own account. Like think about it this way. You get a lot of email. The ones that you respond to are probably from your friends or family or other coworkers, and they look like real email, like just text. So it turns out that those actually have a much higher conversion rate, especially in the early days as you're forming these one-on-one connections. Yeah, and another good example here is customer service. So anyone who's trying to build out a send desk or some kind of forum from the beginning aren't attempting to learn enough from their users. So as a founder of a company, I would want to receive all the emails from all my customers direct them to my email inbox, and I want to reply with my name so that they feel surprised that they're hearing from the founder of the company. That is like a great... And you can do that. And there's a great story from Airbnb here. Joe and Brian actually, their cell phone numbers is what they shared for the first couple of hundred hosts. And they kept calling him for years. And Joe didn't change his numbers. So his number's out there. And that was not negative. That's a really positive thing. He learned so much in relationship with these hosts over those years. So as a founder getting started, you don't really want a lot of systems, besides tracking how your activity on the product is happening, to interact with your customers. You wanna just do it directly. So that leads into the next question quite well. Khan from Haystack asks, customers often have a pain, but they don't know how to solve it. This results in pretty vague feedback. How do you take feedback and iterate on product? So a common question, well a common way to do user research is to ask extremely open-ended questions and not interrupt them too much and not make a lot of assumptions. So one thing we used to do at Airbnb when we were launching a new product It's we would take that product either on a laptop or on a phone and we just walk down Downstairs in our office and we would show that the screens to random people that sat down there and be like just tell me what you Think this is wait your colleagues are just a random people to random people like in the lobby or we're in the lobby Our product was meant to be for the mainstream. So everybody should be able to understand it Yeah, and you have hosts coming into the, you know. Everybody. And then we just asked them to slide through the screenshots of the things that we're trying to build. And just be like, what do you think this is? What do you think this means? Like, what do you think? Instant product feedback. Yes. And, like, if they didn't get it, like, if you asked 10 people and most It wasn't self. I mean you're not going to be there Looking over the shoulder with any of your customers. They're just going to be there on their own alone So so if most people out of a group of ten random random people aren't getting it. It's not good enough it's not like so like obvious enough how the product works and The other thing that we did there's two other things We sometimes we use something called user testing calm.com. I don't know, actually, I'm not sure if I would recommend them anymore, but at the time they were good enough for the problem we were solving. We would do the same thing. We would ask users to do something very simple in the Airbnb app, and then on usertesting.com, some random person would get paid to do that task and then record themselves as they're doing it and then speak up and say what they're doing. And it's like this, and then you watch ten of these videos and people are pulling their hairs. The designers and the product people and the engineers are pulling their hair because they can't believe why people can't get what they're doing. But the truth is that most people don't understand most products and if you come in with the assumptions in these meetings, it's not going to work. So you have to like just let it out there and then learn from that. So to play on this, one of the things that I found is like we always talk about data. We talk about this like, you know, get your analytics set up and track all this data. But oftentimes, like a founder is confronted with like, well, what do I do? I have all this data. So I think what you mentioned is actually one way to cut through that. So if the data shows that you're having this problem or if you're having this conversion, one of the ways that you can get a solid answer is to spin up one of these user testing, like 10 minutes, 30 minutes, and ask the person, just ask five people to go through the pain point. My hunch is that you don't have to ask ask a thousand people to get that answer. I think they used to research it, and they used to say ten people was good enough to get, like, a guidance on, like, is this good or bad? Because it's a big enough sample. Can you be friends? The key thing is to not give guidance. Don't tell, sort of like, what you're supposed to do. Just tell them either goal, or just ask them to speak up when they're going through the flow. And I think, from my experience, that makes you want to standardize things, that make you want to use extremely clear language. Like, people try to be smart about language in their app and clever about how to market their product. Those things tend to go extremely wrong. And what you really want to do is just use your interface language. Like, what happens here click on this Button what happens here? That's my experience of how you make something people actually understand how to use The next one is a question that a bunch of you asked How do you grow a multi-sided marketplace and retain users on that marketplace? So I think there's many things in this question. I get this question a lot so I can talk about it. I'm going to talk about exactly how I would kickstart a new marketplace today. And then why people I think ask this question might not be exactly what I'm going to talk about. So I'll talk about this in a second. First, if I were to start a new marketplace today, I would try to build up the supply first. And I would build up the supply sort of artificially to the level a small number of supply artificially to a level where It would reflect what the idea of I have the product So let's take an uber or lyft for an example if I would launch uber lyft today in a new city I would find ten drivers could be friends and I would make sure that they are driving with Lyft and Uber for the next four or five days, and then I would go out and... Get the friends to actually participate. Yeah, they're just going to drive. They're committing to drive for all that time. I basically have now artificially created this 10-day or something of 10 drivers who's going to be on the streets, and then I would go and get the demand afterwards. So we actually have an example from one of the companies. It's called Aptly. It's an online marketplace that lets founders test out their experiments with target audiences to validate their assumptions, which is almost exactly like what we were talking about. So the person was asking, how do we get this marketplace going? Yeah, so if I would rebuild that idea, I would get 10 really good people that are my friends. Maybe you have to pay them. Maybe you don't. Maybe they're willing to sit through x number of these recessions. I mean, you must have a lot of friends who are founders as well, right? Yeah. Get them to volunteer a little bit of time. But don't go out and get strangers for the supply yet. Validate that there's demand before you go and figure out how to get the supply. And then have them sit through it and see what the feedback from the demand is. So you've got this early supply. So you've got your friends all volunteering their time on this marketplace. Let's talk about what I mean by the level of quality. So in the earliest of Airbnb, we actually allowed supply listings to sign up without a user photo, without a photo of the house. How crazy is that? That was the dumbest idea ever. But it took us a while to figure out that was a really dumb idea. What you really want, of course, is you can't list unless you have quality. You can't be an Uber driver unless you have a nice car or you're a safe driver. And I think this is one of the things that you can do now before you have scale. So you can actually curate this initial list and like your 10 friends, don't make them build the profile. Let them build the profile for them. Post it, just do everything. Once you've validated the supply, so in this case of Uber or in this case of the usertesting.com, if you got into people on the demand side to do it again, like if I use Uber and had a good experience chances are I do it again in the next 10 days and If I had a good experience and it's up to you to define what good experiences in how you're creating the supply If I do it again That's a really good sign that people are voluntarily coming back and either doing this experimentation site or the uber a second time It's like on this experimentation question. So you're building a marketplace You've got your 10 or 15 friends that you're kind of coercing into being those early people. Now you're going out onto the supply side and you're- Demand side. Sorry, yeah. Yeah. Demand side, exactly. So you've got the first people that are coming in the door saying like, hey, could you test out this feature? How do you retain them? How do you how do you retain them? Like how do you get them to come back? So I would always ask people that come in Like what was the experience like can the review the site or just like get some like like phone? Yeah, yeah quality of feedback from from these people of whether they had a good a good about experience It's sometimes hard to get quality feedback from people had a bad experience because they tend to like just not care And sending the service for people that retain that that are churned users is always tricky, but it's very, very important because you want to understand why people didn't find that a good experience. And if they didn't have a good experience, you need to work with the demand and try to understand what about the idea you had in your head for the supply is not correct. It's like debugging the debugging the marketplace Yes, one of the things that I've seen founders like benefit a lot from is asking for phone number during the signup flow Especially during the early days so that if something does go wrong or if you want to if they actually have a great experience You can like physically like you could phone them up and get an answer like email sometimes like it's easy to push off It's easy to blow that off for like a weekend you might be like in the dark but this person had a great experience but i can't get them on the phone or i can't i can't get word back and you just like once you've gone through this phase and like now demand really wants what you're offering now you have to figure out the price like literally what is the man willing to pay for that quality of supply and that is the thing you is not either. Like in the case of this experiment, like getting your friends to do reviewing experiments or ideas, the friends might not be willing to do that at the price that I'm willing to pay. So as usertesting.com, I think I pay them $45 per test. I'm going to assume that $20 maybe went, made it the ways to that person that was reviewing me. I can see how some people want to do that. I don't see how everyone would want to do that for $20. So I think this really depends on sort of like, this is really what you're trying to figure out. And most of us would rent out our home for some price. Maybe we're not, all of us would do it for the current market price. So like that's why not everybody in the world is an Airbnb host for example. And your pricing is kind of part part of your product market fit journey like you'll be experimenting and adjusting that as you as you tune it. Right. Next up Daniel from Story Low asks a pretty tactical question. They makes custom photography easy and affordable. So he's asking can you outline the pros and cons of incentivized growth? Example, like Airbnb, the invite a friend for 25 bucks or Uber's subsidized rides. Great. So I spent a lot of time on this and I worked on the referral program for most of the time I was at Airbnb. It grew to a significant portion of the growth. And from my experience, referral programs have a couple of criterias to make them work well the first one there are the products that already have word of mouth they already have people telling their friends about it so they're not private practice in that in that sense they also sometimes require a friend the product is radical enough that their friend can really help convince me about using the product so So great examples here are Uber, are Airbnb, and some of the things that are just new that I might not trust without a friend telling me about it. So just to dive in, so you're saying like the products where having another friend recommend it actually makes the new customer more likely to buy or that the product gets better if your friends are on it as well? Maybe I wouldn't trust the product. Maybe I wouldn't trust the product. Maybe I wouldn't trust the idea unless the friend recommended this to me. So I wouldn't trust. And that's why you might put in a referral program. Like, think of this. Like, the Airbnb today and the Uber of today are very different than the first month of those two products. Most people would be, like, scared of those two ideas the first time of those two products. Most people would be scared of those two ideas the first time they heard about it. And it's only until when it gets into the mainstream where you now get comfortable for everyone to do it. In that early days, if the idea is that radical, having a friend convince you that that is not scary is one of the really good fundamentals, foundation for a good referral program. Because what referrals ultimately do is they just push them over the edge a little bit to do it and it pushes the person that received their referral over the edge to actually try the product and it doesn't a couple percentages on each side and that could really matter so what's interesting is that you haven't mentioned the actual savings or the percent off like that is almost not it's just really part of yeah it's more like the money is important but the the money cannot just be added to any product like i think it does matter that the product um kind of requires this in some sense um and then the second thing is that the product needs to have a regularly active user base so so what i mean by that like a product you only use once in your lifetime referrals are like less likely to work well because you only have one chance to get someone to actually tell their friends. Versus every time I use Lyft or Uber, I get reminded that I could give my friends $25. Five bucks, yeah. It's actually, there is some conversion every single time I do that. And for Airbnb, for example, after you made a booking or after Lyft or Vue, were the two by far best places to ask someone to invite a friend to Airbnb. And I think we had a 20% click through rate on both those places. So 20% of everyone who gave a review or made a booking actually went into the referral phone and half of them I think ended up sending invites. So that was pretty effective. But people weren't coming back to Airbnb regularly in a way that they were willing to be interrupted to be asked this question. Right, because you only do like an Airbnb, if you're staying, you only do it once a year or once every six months or something like that. People travel once a year. And then the reason I mentioned this is because most people, they don't think about this, where do I get notified or kind of interrupted about the referral program. They just be like, oh, I just put it in the menu. I put it in the settings menu. But they're not coming back to Airbnb. People don't, like, the metric that you want to track to figure this out is percent of weekly active users to see the link for a full program. And if you do track the metric and you look at the people that go to your settings page, no one's gonna go to your settings page. If you put it in the menu, people are typically in an interaction doing something else. So you can't put it in the workflow that the user is going through, because they don't really want to be interrupted when they're doing what they're doing. So that's the first couple things. The second thing is referrals is paid marketing, in the sense that you need to be able to make the money back that you're giving away. So a lot of people get excited by this idea of referrals, but they're not making enough money on the backend to actually make it work. So they're like, maybe they make $10 per users. The truth is that most Americans don't care to take any action for $5. Because if it's $5 on each side, people just don't care about it. So you need to have some minimum number, and I think that number's like $15 or more, that you need to be able to give away. Otherwise, people just aren't gonna care very much, and it's not gonna work I think their MBA referral program right now is $55 to a receiver in the US and $30 or something to the sender. Those are meaningful numbers, and they can be 10%, 15% of your trip as you travel for the first time. So it can be really, really impactful. What we saw at Airbnb is that this does matter. Next question is from Justin at Lounge Looks. My co-founder and I have built Lounge Looks. looks lounge looks provides online tools to home-based beauty and grooming Professionals to help them grow and manage their clientele So all of their customer acquisition right now comes from outreach cold emails DMS on Instagram and it's working They don't feel like it's scalable especially if they want to grow faster at what point do they need to be honest with themselves and Figure out like what the scalable growth channel is here and how long can they stay on this kind of direct method? Great question. When do you switch to scaling growth channels? The truth is that there are only a couple really scaling growth channels in the world. Paid marketing, I mean there are different types of paid marketing, SEO, word of mouth, sales, viral growth, and maybe one or two more. There's not that many others. So first you need to think of which of these channels actually fit my product well. In the talk that I give, there's on YouTube, I have a slide that I borrowed from another person that is sort of like a criteria on how you figure out which of these categories does my product fit into. I think what you're describing here is probably a product that on the demand side fits well into marketing because of the level of targeting that you can do. And it seems like lunch looks have revenue and that revenue can be used to pay for that paid marketing. The challenge with paid marketing is that you don't want to reacquire users. So in the case of Airbnb for example, going back to that example, we wouldn't want to go to and get paid for you to click on our Google ad every time you make a booking. We only want to do that the first time. So after that we want you to install the Airbnb apps and next time you do a search for travel you do in our app. Most companies think about this that way in that the first time you might be acquiring a user through paid marketing, but you don't want to do that concurrently because it adds a lot of risk to your sort of growth strategy. Much better if you would then, if you basically have some natural entry point that a user is going to open, that could be an app, it could be some email, or just some way that I'm not going to have to pay for reacquire that user. So in this case, I think paid marketing is probably the most likely place. Referrals might be the second most likely. And the good news is if you are earning money, you can begin to experiment with those because you know how much the customer is worth after you close them. Cool. Next up is, in your experience, this is a Max from Mamalo. In your experience, especially at Airbnb, what are some of the key product sales activities that you did to reduce lead time, and to what extent did lead time matter? Sure. I think lead time would be like how long it takes to close a sale. Oh. I think lead time would be like how long it takes to close a sale. Oh, so in Airbnb's case, this is not super applicable, except for on the consumer side of travel. The truth is that we are all, as consumers, pretty susceptible to things like exclusivity Scarcity urgency messages like that and now is those are in some cases dark patterns and dark patterns what I mean by that It's like they're just messing with our minds, but actually not really any any any value like the urgency thing Yeah, yeah, but like what we did it and being the way we thought about that is like let's use this stuff as information so let's say you do a search on San Francisco and There's only 40% of the listings left. We should tell you that because that gives you a real sense of urgency that you need to book soon because if you are booking some of the last 10% then you might not get a good deal, like it might be a pretty bad deal because all the good ones are already booked by everyone else and everyone else is rational. So our view was to surface these tactics, urgency, scarcity, exclusivity, sort of like in an informal way and not in a way that kind of like... Overbearing. Overbearing and sort of like mess with your head. Another example is what we call a unique find or a rare find. So if you found a listing, we would literally tell you, this listing is usually booked, is a rare find. So if you found a listing, we would literally tell you, this listing is usually booked, is a rare find. And that's just sort of like, that's a positive signal about the listing instead of saying like... It's almost sold out or something. Yeah, something like that. That's a really... I like that. I've seen the rare find. And the truth is that they work extremely well because as users, we react well to those messages. And that's the reality. Would I prefer it that it didn't work well? Well, I think you just need to think hard about what is the perception of the tactics that you use as you're trying to get people to do what you're doing. And all the e-commerce sites for consumers have some level of these tactics, but you need to just make sure that they are user-friendly and they're not just there as messing with your psychology, but actually kind of giving you some real value. Yeah. We got a question from the YouTube comments. Mo asked, how would you implement a referral program in B2B where a business can refer another business for a bonus? So this is a good question. So it's complicated in a couple of couple of sense. So a referral for B2B, an example of that would be if I work for a SaaS service and I get $500 to refer another customer to that SaaS service. The thing you have to think about first is what is the likeliness that I know other people in my role that would be buyers of this service? So let's say the SaaS service is a payroll software. What's the likeliness that I know other people that work in HR and other companies that would be buyers of the payroll software? In the founder community, probably fairly true, but in the larger mainstream world, like less likely so. Now there are exceptions and there are certainly cases where this could work. There are some legal implications like you can't give someone a thousand bucks to then put in your pocket and then refer and then sort of like convince the company, my company to start using software and I put the money in the pocket. I think that's basically bribery. So there are legal problems with doing this. I don't know exactly where that line is drawn there. Now, I think you should still think. Well, that having been said, like Gusto has a thing, Gusto's a payroll software. They have a very prominent, like, refer someone else, and you get 500 bucks cash. Yeah, so I think the case of this works really well is, for example, founder-owned businesses, so like small businesses. It's very often the person they're referring to is also the owner of the business. And I don't think there's any legal problems if I... And where that would make a meaningful amount, like $500 to a beauty salon that's recommending their software. If we both run small businesses and I refer you a payroll software and you get a few hundred dollars off your payroll software, and you're the owner of the business, that makes a ton of sense. Because it goes back into the... Yeah, and I think for small businesses, this works really well. For larger ones, I think this gets really complicated. But I think for small businesses, it's not a bad idea at all. But I think the other thing that I would say is sort of like helping people... There are ways that you can be smart about who might... Like helping people like... For example, you can use Google Apps in the Google context to sort of like plan ideas in people's head of who might need the software. So I think, probably too long of a thing to go into right now, but I think there are things that you can do to just like at least plant the idea in the head of like, who else do you know that runs payroll? Or who else do you know that needs this type of specific SaaS software? And people always do. And you can do it during your customer interviews because as you're talking to them or when you're onboarding them you can always like if they if they express interest if they're if they're excited about the product you'd be like do you think your friends might be interested? Like who are they? Tell me about their business. Sometimes their roles are more fluid. For example recruiting people are more likely to move between companies and recruiting roles, in my experience, are very good at sharing software and tools between different companies. We've got a question from Erica at Kiefer Labs. How do you reach out and educate people on the amazing benefits of your product and the utmost solution it provides if you have an unfamiliar product and name like probiotic Kiefer? How do you break the wall and scale it? Seems like a general question. What do you think, Eric? I think that, I mean, I would take this question about like branding. How do you, as a startup founder, like, there's two types of products. There's one where you need to educate the market and teach people about like this new product or new category. And then there's the other one where you're building a competing product to an existing incumbent and you have to price it or market it accordingly. I would say that this question is more about like how do you build like enthusiasm for something that's actually completely new? I think it's different in consumer as for B2B. I think for B2B what I would start with is two things. I would first show them the product. So like I've learned this in working with a bunch of YC companies that it can really help just including a screenshot or a video of what the product is. Trying to explain this new idea for someone to solve an existing problem, because it's not a new problem you have typically, can be much harder than to just show them the product. So we found that in B2B SaaS companies, including a screenshot or a video, how it works. Which is tough to do, because often times when people include screenshots, they're like the entire product. Yes, you need to have like, the screenshot needs to be a specific thing that people recognize and be like, aha, that's the thing. I could see myself using this. Yes, yes, so like, I can think of a million things here. And the second thing on the B2B side is just include social proof. So a lot of people are afraid of trying new things unless they're someone that they trust have tried it. So, like, would you try this new payroll software? No. Would you try the new payroll software that Airbnb and Dropbox is using? Yes. And kind of to tie this back to your point about referrals This is where the referral program kicks in because if you're selling something that's actually kind of new But you have a trusted friend who's the one who's like introducing the product you will talk about like a Soylent for example So like I think you're selling a kefir. I think it's like yogurt, right? So Soylent was a product that was like pretty new like people eat food, but they definitely didn't need Soylent And so at the beginning they had this entire community where people like Participated on this forum and they would talk about it And I'm sure that those people were the ones who were telling the first other new users that they should try this thing Called Soylent. Yeah, I think consumer products tend to If they are new enough, they tend to so like have warm-up built into them If they don't, that's a problem. And the category where this is difficult, I think, is very private products. It's like private products that are brand new. It's just like they're just notoriously hard. What's an example? Like stuff that I just put in my bathroom that I don't talk to other people about. Like HIMS or something like that. HIMS is a great example. Like you're not necessarily going to be like rebroadcasting that you're like a hair loss. Hair loss products. Like those things are typically not things that just lend itself too well for these conversations. But it's interesting. They flipped it on its head. They actually like brought it into the conversation a little bit. So that might have been a smart move. Yeah. And then it was one more point on that question. The question. The second thing is like I would for this question try to get some brand association in the sense like try to get written up in some papers and sort of like some some authoritative that have media that you know about and then include so like links and logos to that. Like if there's a new product I've never heard of but if you have times written about it like I'm certainly gonna increase my... They don't have to write about your specific product they just have to write about this category and so if you have times written about it, like I'm certainly gonna increase my they don't have to write about your specific product They just have to write about this category And so if you can like attach yourself to a category that's on the rise that would help I wouldn't go extremely far to get this done But I would say that for something brand new I've never heard of having some level of social proof from some media outlet does help next question is Next question is, how do you balance growth against the backlog of cosmetic quality of life bugs and tickets? It's a false question. As a startup founder, you always have to do everything. It's really hard to say, oh, YC have allowed me to work on growth, so I don't have to work on quality, or vice versa. That is not how you think about these... Well, there's a tension to it, right? There's always a tension, but there's never going to be a black and white situation. They are tightly coupled. And if you have bad quality of product, you're not going to get growth. And if you have lots of bugs and tickets, people are going to churn and you're not going to get growth because having retained users is typically what gives you growth. I think the most important thing that I would advise this founder on is just truly try to understand what drives growth and what drives retention or what drives churn. What makes people unhappy and stop using your product? What makes people happy to use your product? What makes people unhappy and stop using your product? What makes people happy to use your product? I'll give you an idea of what people actually care about in your product. From that point, once you have that information, this question gets easier to answer. Another question from the YouTube stream. Would you recommend SEO for early stage startups? So SEO is interesting. SEO is sort of like still a very big channel because most people in the world still use Google to answer most questions that are not daily questions. And the questions that we ask Google are changing every year. So this year we might ask the question like, who is, and then like politician name that we didn't ask a year ago so like the search volume and the keywords that goes into Google actually changes quite a bit or what is soylent you might have not asked that five years ago so for that perspective like if you can capture the keywords of something new it's possible that this can work really well for you if the question is what should I do in Paris you're not gonna be able to rank for that most likely because there are five other companies there are A lot of companies and a hundred people team work on that trying to rank for that specific question So think about the question trying to rank for and how new are they? The newer they are the chance the bigger the chance that you can actually succeed if these are Established questions that people asking for years like what is a good mortgage? You're not going to be able to rank for that because it's so competitive. It'll take you years of things that you might not even control to be able to do that. So that would be my first question. Is this something you can think about? And is it good to think about it around the idea of a question that people are asking? No, it could be any kind of keywords, but the words that people put into Google are the ones that you should think through. The second thing is there's two ways to really grow SEO. One is to write a lot of good high quality content to get ranked. And the second thing is to do something that's automated where you have a lot of content that's automatically created. So Airbnb is more on the latter. So Airbnb would have lots of landing pages for different cities where there are different listings or even different listings themselves or ways you would organize those listings that's more automatically created versus many startups in the other days literally would just write really good content so maybe in the case of hair loss you would literally write super high quality unique content about that those questions and you always start with the keywords itself so before you try to figure out so like in this process of figuring out SEO is a good idea you want to go to Google, you want to use a tool called the keyword planner and search for those keywords and see how much traffic they get. If they get a lot of traffic now you can start the exercise and try to figure out if you can do anything here. If they don't get any traffic then it doesn't really matter what you do because no one's going to search for that. Kind of on that note, I've got a question. What's your opinion on social media marketing channels these days? They seem to keep changing. Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok. Where would you put your focus? This is probably where I'm the least expert. And maybe one of the reasons I'm the least expert is because they do change so often. So it's really hard to keep track. On one end I would say I quite frequently run into companies who are successful at getting say influencer marketing or some snapchat filter or something in that world working. I'm very rarely running to companies who said we made that work and now we're like a hundred million users because these tactics tend to be quickly saturated and the companies that you're building on top tend to be not in favor of giving away free traffic. They want to charge for that traffic. So they don't really typically allow you to do some hack for too long and then they tend to remove it. And if you compare, for example, Instagram with previous platforms, Instagram doesn't really allow links. Why? Because they don't want spam and they don't want people to sort of like hijack the app for a bunch of commercial messages. They want the commercial messages to exist inside ads. That pay them money. That pay them money. So the one channel in social media marketing that does work is to buy ads from them. That is a truly scalable channel. And TikTok, for example, I believe was one of the biggest advertisers on Facebook and Instagram the year before 2018 or 2019. But they literally just bought ads, spent a billion dollars buying ads on Facebook, and that's how they grew to this scale. Part of how they grew to the scale they are today. So that's the one channel that does work forever. All the other stuff is like, will probably work to some extent for some period of time. And then other people will discover it, they'll come in... Either other people will discover it or the platform itself will make that thing harder. Next question is from Jose at Arcade. Arcde, an instructor-led online education for future game developers and designers in Latin America. He says that our courses are self-paced, meaning the student pays for a course that could, they could finish it quickly or it could take up to a year. How would you measure retention for a service that could take a long time? If you have dropouts, is it an indication that people don't like the product? So I would start by having probably two metrics. The first metric would be dropouts and the second metric would be some metrics that predict dropouts. So my guess that the people that would drop out were the people that didn't take the course anymore. If you find that that's true, there's a strong correlation between people that stop taking your course, then drop out, then you can actually start measuring that first metric, like are people stop taking the course, because most likely that'll lead to a dropout. So I think I would just sort of like try to figure out what's the predictiveness of someone's stop using a service. In Airbnb for example, if someone left a one-star review, highly predictive of someone not booking again. So we should definitely try to avoid people having a one-star review experience. Or people never searching on the site for another year after their first booking is also quite predictable of them not booking again. So there are these kind of like predictive metrics, so to speak, that can predict either the next big good behavior or sort of like bad for you. So that would be my recommendation. Try to figure out what predicts people dropping out. Michael from Hilo. Hilo is building a platform where users share the high and low points of their workday anonymously with their team leaders. He asks, should you say yes to everything? For example, they had a company of 150 employees approach them and want to implement us even at the MVP stage. He thinks that if he says yes, he has no idea what they're going to do in terms of actually handling that. He thinks that if he says yes, he has no idea what they're going to do in terms of actually handling that. So if you have demand for your product, it's a great time, I think, to just ask for a price and see what they're willing to pay. Yeah. If they're willing to pay $50 a month per employee or $20 a month per employee, he's like, sure. Sounds amazing. Why would you not do that? That sounds like a great first customer. If they're not willing to pay, now they might not be willing to actually use it. They're not that much buying from the company to actually care about what you're building. This idea sounds new and interesting, but new enough that I suspect a lot of people that hear about this idea would say, that sounds interesting. I think I want to try that. Try it. But they didn't say, I would try that for 50 bucks a month for one year contract for all my employees. Yeah. I would be surprised if they say that right away. So in this scenario, I think you really need to figure out what is the value. And this might take some time to figure out what the value that you can charge for it but the good news is it sounds like people are excited and they're like they're they're excited and trying even an MVP and you really want to get that like the danger here would be taking this as positive feedback and then going and continuing to build your product without interacting with the customer so the right move I think is what Gustav said is to go back to them and say would you actually like be a paid customer of this early MVP product? If they say yes, then you just got your first customer. If they say no, you'll figure out what is the delta between what your MVP is and what they would be willing to pay you for. Go down. Oh, the letter sharing question. Missed it. Sorry? Oh, there we go. Okay. This is a question from Twitter. Sorry? No. Oh, there we go. Okay. This is a question from Twitter. We're Taree, Airbnb for luggage sharing. The concept of luggage sharing is quite novel in India and the market is hugely untapped. How do we scale our product or concept to a larger audience and with investors? This is a great question. I actually used my first luggage sharing app last year. No way. What was your use case? My use case was I just checked out my Airbnb and we were staying in Harlem and we're going to Penn Station to take the train to DC and I didn't want to carry my bag around for a couple of hours. And that's natural. Hotels will do this for you. Airbnb does not do this for you. And you have a checkout at 11 a.m. So the rest of the day, you kind of have to carry your luggage around. So there's a clear need. Now, there isn't actually a great product for this. There are a bunch of products, and I tried a couple of them, but there's no one that has exactly what I want. So what I would do here is I would build an app. An app allows you to, once someone has found you through Google, to once someone has found you through Google, which is the most likely place you'll find this, install the app and keep the app on your phone. The app is gonna be the thing that I remember next time I need this. I just go to the app and it automatically opens the app and the map and see what do I have near me or I type in an address. The second thing is you wanna make sure you have some level of trust. So the one thing I experienced storing my luggage, I actually just stored my luggage in a restaurant, sort of at the side, and it felt like if they weren't looking around, someone could come in and grab my luggage. And I didn't feel safe, that was gonna be my computer. So the second thing is I really think you want to build in some level of guidance to the locations, and some level of maybe a guarantee that you can offer that makes me trust that my luggage is safe. The third thing is like, then you can figure out how can I put this in front of people every single time they check out of the Airbnb. So you can try to talk to Airbnb business development team. It will be hard if you're a small startup. They might not care about you unless you have thousands of locations around the world where this is possible. But it would be a pretty good idea to integrate that sort of like after you made a booking, just like you have rental cars that's tied to hotel bookings, et cetera. But you could also do that without actually talking to Airbnb. You could talk to Airbnb hosts directly. So every Airbnb host sends a little pre-formatted email with every time someone checks. It has like the address,, how to get there and like how to get there from the airport. You could maybe convince some of them to include a little line in it saying and then... Absolutely. And the good idea, the cool thing with this idea is you can start just like Airbnb started, you start in the big cities. So... And there's a lot of like, they do a lot of travel. New York, London, like all the places where people there's a lot of travelers here where you definitely need to store your luggage and and i think again think of the cities where you walk a lot um probably la wouldn't be the best place because i can bring i'm not going to walk around the latest much as i will do somewhere else start with cities we go you need to walk a lot um get a bunch of places that you can store luggage that are all around the city but specifically where people are going to go next so that is like the airport or that is the train station or whatever the people are going next. That's where probably I'm going to pick up my luggage afterwards. The innovation I haven't seen yet here is sort of like I open the app, I push a button, and within 10 minutes someone comes and pick up my language. That is the innovation I was hoping for. I would have paid like 15, 20 bucks just to have someone get my luggage. Which makes sense. Like you could piece that together using on-demand like... Totally. Like Uber. You order an Uber and pick my luggage. You heard it here first, guys. And then drive my luggage to where I'm going to pick it up. I would pay $20 to not have to drive my luggage around all day. But no one was offering that. That does not exist as far as I know. But I think that would're going to be at. It's like a very cool system. I believe that once people have done this once, they'll do it forever. So once you've realized that this was the easiest way to carry my luggage throughout the day, people will do it forever. So I certainly think there's more to explore here. And I think there will be a company. Or shopping. Absolutely to explore here and I think there will be a company. Or shopping, shopping like. Absolutely. Yeah. Even like the luggage, like that might send back to home country. There's all kinds of innovation you can do here. But the companies that exist today are very small. They are not even apps, they're just websites. They did the work, it was very cheap. They actually used hotels to some extent because hotels want additional revenue now that Airbnb is growing. But there was nothing that was like there's no brand that i know of so i think there's certainly an opportunity for someone to build this company and and you just have to figure out how much people are willing to pay but i i believe people probably willing to pay 20 30 dollars just to do this over a day uh next question we'll get through a couple more joseph from metro push metro push is an application that sends push push notifications from public service broadcasters to their customers. They decided to offer their product with one year free before an ad free subscription and they think it's a pretty good deal. Are they hurting themselves by offering a free trial and only relying on ads for revenue? Yes, I don't think you need to offer your product for a year for free. I think you can offer it, the longest that would make sense to me would be two weeks or a month. That would be the longest type of, because what you're really looking for is someone to start using your product, build some basic, like basically onboard themselves and try to figure out what the product does. And so do I find it valuable? Maybe I, again, take the athletic example. I sign into the athletic, I read four articles about Toronto Maple Leafs and I'm like, wow, this is a great app. Like that's all you need to know about how the app works. You don't need to use that for free for another month. I think at that point you'll wanna start, you wanna get someone to pay. So I think that's probably a mistake to do for a whole year. The revenue you'll make from advertising versus revenue you make from subscriber is going to be at what of like 10 to 20x difference. So you're going to make a lot more money from subscribers even though you have a lot fewer subscribers than you have advertisers. It's just very difficult to have an ad, like a generic ad-based platform that using some kind of ad network today and make a lot of money like because the the CPM they cut the The earnings are just not there. You're going to make from a very active product Somewhere between zero and fifty cents a month at the most probably less than that And that's with like engagement of multiple minutes per day. Oh, yeah, yeah for sure So so most likely you're talking about a couple of cents to ten cents per user per month Which is like just not worth it. If that's like $1 a year, you just can't ... Nothing, you can't ... You can't acquire new customers for that. You can't service them. There's no customer support. You can't buy content. So basically having engineering ad networks today doesn't build a sustainable company, and I don't think investors would want to fund you if that's what you're serious about to monetize your product. The good news is that users, consumers are getting more comfortable with microtransactions, paying for subscriptions. Like for example, we have a company called Substack that went through YC about a year ago. They enable anyone to start an email newsletter that you can actually charge money for. I think this was somewhat of like a revolutionary concept a year ago, like who would pay for an email subscription? And it turns out a lot of people are because they get this reliable content kind of on a regular basis from a high quality writer. And they feel good because, you know, the person that's writing it is like earning, you know, a good wage. And it fundamentally solves a societal problem in that now the business models align with the actual users of the product and they're not in conflict, which always, I mean, not just Facebook, but even the newspapers have some of those challenges. Absolutely. Next up is from Marina from Growth Channel. We want to hear more about user-generated growth strategies that can be applied to B2B SaaS companies? Okay, so the way that you would win as a B2B company today is to make a new product that maybe solves an existing need and then just apply the very best consumer-grade growth skills to that SaaS product. Because most people that are competing with us aren't going to do that. They're going to do very traditional stuff traditional stuff case studies like old-school marketing Interest going to big events. They're not gonna do invite flows. They're not gonna do super targeted Facebook ads they're not gonna do a lot of things that They're not a great referral program. They're not gonna build these things into the product So so if I would try to grow inside a company I would Connect with Google I would try to grow inside a company, I would connect with Google. I would try to figure out if I can get hold of the email address book from some of the employees. I would pick out the emails from the coworkers based on the domain. So maybe like ycamera.com would be the domain that we have, and then I would figure out who is in there. Can I either recommend people that you can share or invite based on that address book, or is there some other value that I can share between within that company? Are you saying that you should do lookalike audiences from any place that was? No, I'm just saying how to go inside a company. Okay. Inside a company. How to go between companies, I think it's a little trickier. Let's see, for example, the idea of the other app they had. Question was, should they be looking at a... So, yeah, let's talk about virality. So, yeah, but virality, there's certainly gonna be inter-company virality. Let's say collaboration on document. There are also virality that goes outside of that. So some documents are, by nature, something you collaborate with the broader world with. So if I would say Airtable, I would try to figure out what are the most viral documents that exist today in the world. For example, the Burning Man packing list is one spreadsheet I remember being very viral. There was like tens of thousands of people using that. Oh, like a Google spreadsheet. It was a Google spreadsheet which just went around. It was like, this is where you pack to go to Burning Man. I would replicate that on Airtable. tens of thousands of people using that. On like a Google spreadsheet. It was a Google spreadsheet which just went around, it was like this is what you pack to go to Burning Man. I would replicate that on Airtable and I would think of all the other viral documents that are just get mass distribution and I would just see if I can do the same. And what's interesting, like that's an enterprise like SaaS product where you pay, like there's, if you win the customer, they're paying like 25 bucks a month or something like that. And in the case of Airtable, I wouldn't just like make it viral, I would also make it embeddable. So I would take the Airtable table and be like, can you embed that on your website? And so that everyone comes there and trying to do something specific actually see that Airtable. That's how I've reached like the broader market. How to reach between companies I think is a little trickier because like you just got to think hard about what do I do that relates to other employees at other companies? So let's look at slack Yeah So like slack has the ability for you to add an employee at another company into your slack room without them having like their own Slack and just like you give them an account that opens into one. That's a great method if you could do something like that That's really good. So I think like for virality Always think about what is that? So like what's the piece of content that I'm actually collaborating on versus sort of like, oh, can I just figure out a way to invite a lot of people? I think that's less exciting. So build it into the product rather than just the referral strategy. So like in the Google Docs, you can just add someone and they can leave a comment in your document. You can add anybody in your email address book. That's a pretty viral thing. You just have to think about, what Google Docs can I do that for? And then growing inside companies, I think you really wanna find a way to utilize the address book of your Google Ads account. I think that's gonna be the core way to do it. So it's like often get their contact and then give them all accounts? Well, you wanna figure out what you should share to these other emails and what does an employee benefit from sharing. And that could be different things for different products. The second thing is you want to make every document very easily copyable. There's a YC company we funded that creates a link. So you can take any link, and then you can say air slash and then anything, and then you can basically share that on the office. And then that company offers that service, but that link becomes sort of physically viral because they know that air slash something... That's GoLynx. GoLynx. GoLynx is a company. But basically, there's a physical virality to that idea inside a company, for example. Cool. Well, that's it for today. Thanks very much, Gustav. There's a lot of actionable advice that we've got in there. And yeah, we'll join you. We'll be back next week for another live stream. Thank you so much. Thanks.