 Why did you decide to start doing a podcast after the site was gone? People were asking for it. It seemed like a good idea. I mean, the number of people who asked me to do a podcast was so much higher than people who asked for any other feature. And also, I think part of the text interviews was that you have to share your revenue. So everyone is completely transparent. And the number of people that I reached out to who I thought would have really good stories for the site that people can learn from, who were willing to share everything but their revenue, was pretty high. And so I kept getting tired of people saying, you know, I'm not going to come on. If I have to share my revenue, you need some other way where I can come on and share my story. So the podcast kind of helped me kill that bird. And also, you know, it appeased people who wanted me to do a podcast. But to people who wanted me to do a podcast but i was terrified of it because like i said earlier like i don't i'd never done a podcast was it were there people you admired at the time you're like oh i want to make a podcast like x y not at all i barely listened to podcast yeah i mean like i was just like you know what i'll try this uh i had a very like lazy approach to like i'm not gonna do a ton of research i'm not going to i'm just gonna try talking to people and see how it comes out and have my own style i think it's worked out i've gotten better over time yeah well what do you what are the skills you've developed do you think i think i've gotten a lot better at preparing efficiently uh i don't know like reading there yeah like knowing what to read and what to listen to what kinds of questions to ask that'll be engaging and that they'll give good answers to and how to follow up on a question if you get an unexpected answer so i'm kind of a control freak i'm like okay here's exactly at least in the beginning you know i'm gonna ask question a b c d e f and this is how it's gonna go and like you know you ask a question they start giving you answers all over the map and suddenly your perfect plan is thrown into disarray so i think uh just like having the composure and the ability to calm down and be like okay it's okay and just listen to what they're saying and have a normal conversation was difficult at first uh other things like i don't know if you'd call this a skill but just being comfortable like in my own skin like not uh not cringing at the sound of my own voice because you edit your own yeah i had my own podcast but like i mean i would go back and listen and it's like i I don't know if you hate the sound of your voice, but I hated the sound of my voice at first. Now I'm fine with it. But at first I was like, man, I sound awful. He was going to listen to me. Now it's not a problem. Yeah, you can only spend so much of your time cringing at yourself after you're like, oh, God. I mean, like the amount of hours I it's fine like yeah that is one of the things that i i thought the fear would remain and it completely goes away um maybe to a fault where you don't care um but yeah the video element has thrown a few people what um what was your favorite episode i haven't listened to all of them yet it's hard to say a favorite episode because i'm always like i'm gonna hurt somebody's feelings okay and then i forget too you know like what happened in that episode but some of the coolest ones i did one with my friend julian shapiro who's got a growth consultancy called bell curve and he just like deep dived into like a bunch of different kind of stories of him working with different clients and he was not afraid to share like times where he just messed up so i thought that was really cool i really like the episode i did last week with west boss who's that was a good one yeah he's a great guy i mean he's uh gets an enormous amount of work done to be just a one person he's got an email it's like 170 000 developers on it that he's built by himself in like five or six years uh twitter following of like 100 000 people and he's just trucking along he works nine to puts his laptop down, and then goes to hang out with his wife and his kids. So he's got it together. I wondered about that. Like, is there a list of people that you admire? You're like, man, that person has it figured out. Like, I want to do exactly what they're doing. Yeah, there's a lot of people. And it's like, I always forget. I'm like oh yeah i'm a west boss guy your life's pretty good yeah it's it's okay um i've i've seen a handful of like roundups of indie hacker pro tips from every episode uh are you continuously integrating their great ideas into your daily life or do you kind of just go your own way yeah Yeah. I think it's funny. It's one of the things I was telling a friend a couple of days ago. I think generally speaking, like all of us tend to overweight like novel advice, like things that are new or flashy or we haven't heard before. And we tend, it's like so easy to ignore the things that we hear all the time, you know, like, Oh, make something people want. Talk to your customers. Exercise. Yeah, exercise. Take some time off. Like, oh, I've heard that before. I get it. But I try to have the discipline to when I see that kind of repeated advice to take it to heart and not look at it as something that, okay, you know, have I heard this before? Yes, it doesn't matter. But more, you know, as a reminder to myself, like, am I actually living by this? I've internalized this, or I like to think I have, but am I actually talking to my customers? Am I actually taking time off? Am I actually exercising? And the answer a lot of times is no. So I think when people do these roundups and people analyze things and I see this advice repeated, I take the time to ask myself if I'm doing it. And I think I've gotten better at it. It's just repeated reminders to myself. Yeah, I think you become conscious of it. But I agree, I don't need 12 new morning routines in my life. All right, so we posted a bunch of questions, or other people posted questions to Twitter for you. You have a lot of fans online. Ryan Hoover, Product Hunt, asked, what do you believe that most others do not? That's a tricky question. We prepared this one. Yeah. I'm glad I got this question on Twitter rather than just being asked randomly because it's hard to answer unless you've thought about it. Yeah. Kind of a funny story. So I think this question originally comes from Peter Thiel, who would ask the founders of companies that he was interested in investing in just as a way to find out if what they're doing is truly unique and whether they'd be able to have a monopoly and very few competitors. That's why he liked it. I liked it when I heard it because it's kind of a sneaky way to get somebody to say something controversial. So when I was in YC five years ago, I asked Paul Graham. It was 2011, and I was like, hey, PG, what do you believe? I think I asked, what do you believe that other smart people don't uh and it took him a long time to answer he was just like i don't know my thoughts they're not indexed that way uh but then he ended up coming up with an answer and it worked it was controversial like i don't think anybody would very many people would agree okay i can't say what it was out of respect for him i don't mean to be a tease but uh luckily i've had some time to think about it so uh probably the most obvious one is i think that it's probably a bad bet to start a VC-funded company for the vast majority of people. You should not go that route. But there's other things I believe, too. I think that in the valley of kind of this culture of always talking about what mission drives you, and we kind of are not honest about the fact that a lot of us are motivated by money and financial things, I think it's probably better for the world if people can just be upfront and honest about that i think i got a few others but like let's start with those two yeah no i completely agree and i think um your or everyone's ability to rationalize is unbelievably powerful yeah and you can be into anything and if you're good at it like just being good at the game is often enough to drive people. So you see folks criticizing anyone who works in anything. And they're like, oh, why do they care about this? Why do they do that? And you're like, it's because they're really good at it. They get into it. It's one of the things that you're good at. It stimulates your brain. Yeah, absolutely. Was there a point at which that you kind of turned on the interest in VC-backed companies. Did something happen? It was before I even got into YC, funnily enough. I went to startup school, 2009, and Jason Fried was there from 37 Signals, they called it at the time. And he was like, he stood out like a sore thumb. He was completely different than everybody else who talked. Everybody else was kind of a VC, or they were a founder of a VC-backed company. And he got on stage and basically said, everybody else is lying to you. Don't believe a word they say. Credit to YC for inviting like, you know, the opposite opinion there. But I was very taken by what he had to say because no one else was saying it at the time. It didn't really change my approach at that time. But then I got into YC and we had the weekly, you know, Tuesday dinners where founders would come in. And the same thing happened. We had a lot of VCs come in. We had a lot of founders of well-funded companies come in. And then Kevin Hale came in from Wufoo. And he was like the only person. He was kind of an indie hacker at the time. And he was just like, yeah, I packed up my company. We moved to Florida. Investors call us every day. We just, you know they're making millions of dollars a year and i was intrigued by that like huh you know but it wasn't until like recently like basically last year i really decided that's what i wanted to do for myself yeah i wasn't really uh you know in the mood or really inclined to do the whole fundraising thing and i'd rather just make money from an idea online that i enjoyed doing and that idea was that indie hackers or was that okay so i mean the company that i did yc with task force still exists it's still out there it still actually makes money uh passively i kind of worked on that for a little bit but i didn't think it was really going to go anywhere i wasn't enthused about the idea and so i sat around for like a couple days thinking okay what am i going to work on and uh pg must have been two days yeah it to work on? And PG wrote about this. Must have been two days. Yeah. It was like three solid days. PG wrote about this like 12 years ago or something. But a lot of people, when they come to the idea phase, they think that it's something that you naturally have to be good at. You know, you just get a good idea or you don't, right? Whereas like the reality is, it's like any other creative endeavor. If you practice for long enough, you'll create a good idea you know you don't try to like paint the mona lisa in like 15 minutes and if you don't get it you give up so i was like all right i'm gonna push through this i'm gonna spend like two days coming up with ideas most of them are absolutely horrible you know i just deleted them immediately but by the end of two days i realized i was consistently coming up with much better ideas than i had before and i was just reading through hacker news threads because people would ask every month, ask HN, what's your profitable side project? Or ask HN, how much money are you making from your business? And people would share all the details. I figured, okay, there's hundreds of stories here. If I read through enough of them, maybe I'll glean some insights, I'll see some patterns that I can apply and it'll help me come up with an idea. And that's literally exactly what happened. The reason these threads are so popular is because everybody else is really interested. I could probably do a better version of these threads. And that's what indie hackers is. And I was wondering, is it because there's been a rise in the popularity of indie hackers, right? But I think there's also a rise in just the number of those threads all over the internet. Is that because more people are now thinking about small businesses or just non-VC-backed businesses, or there's more people in the software development space right now? I think probably a combination. So I read the book Sapiens earlier this year, and it's kind of a history of all of humanity from the beginning of evolution. And my takeaway from Sapiens was that human societies tell stories and it's tricky because it's difficult to determine whether or not something you believe is just like an arbitrary story that your society happens to tell or if it's like some immutable fact of the universe and for the longest time like the story around tech companies has been that like if you start a tech company you have to raise a lot of money and prioritize growth over funding and you know that's the story and so it's amazing how much everyone just believes that doesn't even consider the possibility that you can start you know a profitable company that doesn't have to be that big and you don't need any sort of investors or gatekeepers to tell you what to do i think the story started to change a lot and once people hear this alternative version of the story, and once they see examples of it, people kind of like wake up out of this zombie-like state and they're like, oh, I guess I can do that. You know, they've sort of been given permission. But there are other practical factors and reasons why the story has changed. A good one is if I look at the IndieHackers traffic stats, something like 60% of the traffic is from not in the United States, let alone Silicon Valley. People are all over the world starting these companies. And just from a practical standpoint, it's hard to raise money if you live in Bucharest. It's difficult. You don't live in Silicon Valley. You don't have access to investors. And so your options are either you suck it up and try to raise money locally, you move to a tech hub and raise money there, or you just prioritize profitability, which is kind of the easiest of those three options and so i think there's a lot of just natural pressure uh as more people over the world get interested in tech to start profitable businesses and to care less about growth overall else and have you seen that there's there's a common trend in folks just getting started like starting similar kinds of software businesses yeah Yeah, for sure. I mean, the other thing is, if you look at the companies that VCs tend to invest in, they're generally in winner-take-all markets. Yeah. Because venture capitalists want some massive return. You really want to be number one. You want to destroy the competition. So it's social things like Facebook or search applications like Google versus things that are profitable. You don't want to be on a winner take all market, right? You don't want to be fighting for your life every second of the day. And you don't want to be, you know, in a zero sum game where everyone else has to lose for you to win. And so people end up starting businesses that are very related. Like how many profitable analytics companies do you know? Like email marketing companies? There's a ton. You know, how many different ways are there to teach somebody something? I tell people all the time if you want to start a business just teach people people like learning in like a thousand different ways right some people want to go to college some people want to like you know classroom settings some people want to read some people want video courses some people want an email newsletter some people want to learn through games right like there's no reason why you have to you know right completely differentiate from everyone else in the market you can do something that's similar and people will like your own unique style so people for sure start related businesses and i think it's a good thing because then it it kind of fosters a sense of camaraderie you don't have to compete with everybody you don't have to be mistrustful of everybody uh and you can get advice from people who are similar and doing things that kind of tread that path before you well i've been wondering that with all the guests you get you know because they're divulging most of their information right like usually like how much money they're making all these kind of metrics are they worried about copycats or is this something that now that you have some traction they kind of like know the deal and it's easier to get people yeah i mean people that i've talked to are generally not that worried i've had some people who refuse to come on because they say what's the benefit of me revealing my secrets you know someone's gonna copy me. And then I've had people who reveal their secrets that have actually been copied. And it's always hilarious. Because if you think about the kind of person out there who's going to just listen to your podcast and read your interview and just waiting for someone to reveal all the details. And then they clone everything that you've done and make some crappy version of your website. But that's different in no way at all, except that it's two years later, that's not the most competent person that you should be afraid of. I think generally it's a non-issue, especially if you're not in some sort of winner-take-all market. Okay. Even more questions from Twitter. There is a David Adamu asked this question to both you and Ryan, which is part of the YC application. It is, tell us about a time you successfully hacked a non-computer system to your advantage. Yeah, I do remember doing this on the YC application. My answer now, I think, would be more interesting if I related it to NDHackers, but early on in NDHackers history, I was kind of running myself ragged. I thought that, I mean, I really wanted to put out a lot of content. I wanted to do three or four or five early on interviews per week. And these are not small interviews. So like sometimes 1,000, 2,000 words. Sometimes they're very poorly written. I had to edit. I had to follow up with the person. So they took hours and hours. And you did this solo? Yeah, I did as well. And so my trick early on was like, I'm just going to work 80 hours a week. It was not much of a trick. Yeah, but eventually I realized like, okay, this is not going to work. You know, it's okay to do things that don't scale, but you can't do that forever. You need to figure out a way to make it work. And so what I wanted to do was, you know, increase or of content that I was putting out without having a drop in quality. And so I wanted to, the ultimate would be to have some sort of interview system that worked for everyone, it was generally applicable, and yet still got interesting answers and didn't take me very long to do. And the answer that I hit on, I kind of stumbled into it. I just started doing it naturally and it ended up working out, was every time I would do a text-based interview, and I did these interviews over email, I would ask pretty much the same questions. And then I would look at the responses and ask follow up questions. And then I would take a note, okay, why did I have to ask that follow up question? What did they leave out? They probably should have included, you know, how could their answer have been better? Like, why did I go to them and give me a better answer? And after a few months of interviewing companies from all sorts of different industries and verticals, I had a gigantic list of ways that people commonly gave uninteresting interviews and so i just factored that into my interview questions so i have like a question followed by like 10 or 11 bullet points for like here's how you should answer or here's what you should avoid in your answer here are things that people like listening to uh and so i started sending that to people and you know instantly the interviews that i got back were much more entertaining and they were required less effort because i can send the same packet of questions to everybody so it's kind of a you know i guess it qualifies as a hack where i no longer have to do as much work but they're handwriting they're well they're typing these answers they're typing the answers to me over email and every now and then i'll send a follow-up question but uh it was not it was optimized to be as little work as possible on my part so i could do other things like start the podcast i was selling ads at the time that took up like half of my time yeah etc hmm yeah because i found that the um the best hack for me we did a bunch of interviews with the first employees at tech companies and the thing that worked was just doing audio interviews transcribing them and then doing like insane amounts of editing because i found that there were there were just issues that um you you have trouble going back and forth to get deeper and deeper and deeper. Maybe you figured this out through repetition. But giving someone one chance at an answer and then they painstakingly write the perfect answer, oftentimes it comes out kind of flat. Yeah, it doesn't work very well. No. It didn't work for me early on, which is why I had to do crazy amounts of follow-up emails. And I was just resistant to doing the call. I didn't work for me early on, which is why I had to do crazy amounts of follow-up emails. I was just resistant to doing the call. I didn't want to get on the phone with people. That's why I was so scared to do a podcast. I was like, I want to talk to people. I just like the whole programmer behind the computer, type in my keyboard, and that's it. But it worked out. I think when we launched IndieHackers last Augustust it was like 10 interviews and it took me three weeks i sent hundreds of emails yeah to get 10 people to agree to do an interview and one of them was me so it was really only nine people and now we've got like 200 i think we just hit 200 this week interviews 30 podcast episodes yeah and i'm working you know on that part of the business less than i ever had so so what are the other parts you're working on i'm working on the the community right now. So IndieHackers really started off as a content site, really a showcase for these types of profitable internet businesses. But today I would describe it more as a community of founders and aspiring entrepreneurs who are sharing knowledge with each other and helping each other to build successful businesses. So the real core of the site is the community forum. It's just a bunch of people asking each other practical questions. How do I market my site? What do you think about my landing page? Did I change this? What do you think about my idea? How do you people find time to work on your projects when you have a family or a full-time job, et cetera, and just helping each other out? That takes a lot of time to grow. And I'm thinking about building, kind of harnessing the power of the community to build tools that help these makers and these indie hackers to actually do better. What can they all work together on to make their lives easier? So it could be something as simple as maybe a crowdsource list of the best podcast episodes for this month. Just because I don't want to dig through all the podcast episodes to find out what's worth listening to. I want these other people to tell me. All sorts of tools like that I think would be interesting for this community. So I'm spending almost all my time coding and talking to people and trying to figure out what to do there. Whereas my brother, who was brought on as part of the Stripe acquisition, is handling almost all of the editing for the interviews and coordinating with interviewees and handling the articles and finding people to write for indie hackers. Okay, so that now is just like growth tactics, right? To get people into the forum. Yep, exactly. And it's kind of automatic. I mean, I'm not doing very many tactical things. Things get submitted to Hacker News. I think that's probably our number one growth channel. People on Hacker News read the interviews, which is how the site got launched. So it's not particularly, nothing has changed very much in the last year. It's more about product. What's the right decision? What's worth building and what's not? It's a tricky decision because obviously as a one or two person team, building something is a humongous investment and you don't want to spend three months building the wrong thing. We have a handful of people coming up. One guy runs a site called BiggerPockets, which I don't know if you you seen this before no it's basically like a giant real estate forum and they've created uh tons of educational content and i think they also have like a bunch of uh i might be mistaking this but a bunch of like calculators and stuff so basically these tools that folks who are interested in real estate investing need yeah and they've like figured it out like after someone asked the same question 400 times in the forum you're like oh maybe there's some amount of interest here. Exactly. I think that's a cool model, too. When I was scouring Hacker News trying to come up with an idea, the company that I saw that inspired me the most and actually the first person that I reached out to for an interview afterwards was a company called Nomad List. Started by this guy, Peter Levels, who's always on HN. He's like a crazy personality on Twitter as well. But what he did was basically built a resource for digital nomads, basically a list of all the different cities in the world that you might want to travel to, and then just common stats that you would like to research, like how fast is the internet? How safe is it? How expensive is it? And so people who are digital nomads are like, of course, they want to do this research. They're going to go to this site rather than scouring the web. And once he got them all in one place, he built a community. And he started building tools for that community that are just for digital nomads like himself. I think that's a pretty cool model. It sounds like this real estate site is the same. Indie hackers are very similar. Yeah, and so because that was a handful of people on Twitter asked this question. So Tom instance uh you know in pratik um i'm getting their name wrong basically how do you how do you grow a forum is the question right like had you built a forum before no idea i had no idea uh i just kind of winged it i knew i wanted to have a forum so the day that i launched nd hackers i had a link on the site that said forum but the forum wasn't built yet and it just had like a sign up list you know so it would just go to like a mail chimp list or something yeah i'm just getting my mail chimp list and i wanted to see okay how many people sign up for the mailing list on this page it's some sort of rough indicator whether or not people want there to be a forum or a community which i wasn't sure of you know you could people are already talking on reddit they're already talking in hacker news you to to do it yeah i did a lot of things early on that i think were a lot of people found unintuitive they're like why would you do that you know why are you building your own website rather than using wordpress or why don't you just use a medium blog you know why is nd hackers like you know this dark blue website it looks ridiculous you know why would you do why are you building your own forum? Why don't you use Discord? So why don't you just use Facebook? And my thinking from the very beginning was like, your product, whatever you do, you should probably take, if you're going to be invested in it for a number of years, you should take the time to make it stand out and be different and be yours. And I knew going into it also that I'm a computer programmer. The other ideas on my list before i chose indie hackers were all like kind of sass businesses that involved a lot more development and i begrudgingly chose the idea that was a blog indie hackers is a blog so i was like okay if i'm a programmer and i really want to do these other things but i'm going to do a blog i'm going to allow myself to like do some fun stuff and make some stuff to keep myself interested and i also thought about what i didn't like about blogs and you know the worst thing about blogs is when you go to something and you blog and you read something good on it and then you come back a month later and you don't even remember that you were there. There's no way you're going to go to IndieHackers and not remember that you've already been there because it's this quirky dark blue website that looks like nothing else on the internet. You know, you might as well stand out. So I decided early on that I didn't want to do, you know, the standard thing that other people were doing. I didn't want to use Facebook for my community groups. I wanted to do it all in-house and do it myself. And so if someone were to start a community, what would be your advice on getting a forum going? Okay, so number one, I think you need to organize your forum around a topic that people can actually talk about and they actually enjoy talking about. It seems obvious, but people do it all the time where they start start a community i think around something that people don't really like talking about and then they wonder why it's empty like what ah like just like one-off things like okay let's start a community about i don't know like something super specific like how do i how do i incorporate okay well you can't really have a community around how you incorporate because people will ask that question it's answered and they, right? So not only do people need to enjoy talking about it, but they need to actually, it needs to be substantive enough that they can come back and continue talking about it. Starting a business obviously qualifies because there's endless challenges. Number two, I think you need to have some sort of strategy to continually drive traffic to it. It can't be you launch your community on Product Hunt, and then after that you've got no strategy. And this applies to any product, not just a form. With NDHackers, if you were to think about the form as the core product of NDHackers and the interviews as content marketing, I think that would be a good model for how it works. So I'm constantly doing these interviews every week. The interviews themselves are really entertaining. It proved early on that people on Hacker News and Reddit and other websites and Twitter enjoyed sharing them. on that people on Hacker News and Reddit and other websites and Twitter enjoyed sharing them. So I could do the interviews, get people on my mailing list, and then send out links to the community on my mailing list and continually drive traffic and kind of kickstart it over and over and over and over again for weeks. So if you're starting a community from scratch and you don't have any way to consistently drive traffic to it, you're at a tremendous disadvantage and you're going to be sort of just having to pedal faster every single time you want to get more traffic. I didn't have to do that. It was easier because I started with my content marketing strategy first. And I think finally, you got to ensure that there's good content and discussions going on early on. Like I, you know, the first week created a bunch of fake accounts, which I had heard other people doing. I was like, all right, this seems cheesy, but cheesy but you know i'll try it and i would have conversations with myself yeah i would have conversations with other people i never let anyone make a thread that i didn't respond to and try to give them like a valuable response because otherwise they're not going to come back yeah no one wants to see an empty forum no uh it helps to think up interesting discussion topics etc so as long as people like talking about what you're doing as long as you have a way to drive traffic there consistently and as long as you ensure that the conversations there are interesting i think over time the forum that you start will grow so to kind of boil it down there were no crazy growth like hack type things it's just you figured out a market where people are interested in reading a bunch of content about and made a bunch of content yeah and then they just ended up on your site and following you and all exactly and like the idea of like the crazy growth hack is so overrated you know like i mean even when i when i sometimes do an indie hackers interview people who read it like on hacker news will say oh you know just boil down to this one trick that this person did and it's like that's never the case you know i think we all wanted to always be like oh was this one thing that they did that's responsible? Of course it's not. It's almost always just like they got the basics right. They made something that people actually wanted, which is deceptively simple advice. It sounds simple, but people always subtly do other things that aren't making something that people want and wonder why no one uses their product. So the tricks, I think, are overrated. Make sure that you've built something that people want that's good and then make sure that you're actually thinking about how to get people in the door you're not obsessed with the product itself right yeah i mean it's the i mean people call it like leaky bucket all this stuff um it's continually a piece of advice that when we're talking about like content or content marketing with any yc startup it's like make something that you're gonna want to read right you know doing these like listicles that no one really cares about and your site looks like Medium so no one remembers what it is. It's kind of just wasting time. I know. I did the same thing too with my YC company. We just slapped a blog on our website. It was so boring. We would announce new features every now and then and then it would be empty for like six months. Whereas I think some of the most interesting content online is it's treated as if it is the product right nd hackers the content was like the only thing on the site for months yeah you know i think you need to put that level of detail and thought into it and you know like we were just talking about be creative too like content doesn't even have to necessarily look like content the content on nomad list was like a database of cities with information about them right that's not like traditional content but it's interesting yeah how many um how many interviews do you cut text interviews or podcast uh i mean the answer is actually oh zero they all go they all go to prince or publish or whatever i don't think i've ever conducted a text interview that i didn't end up putting up you know there might have been like one or two or someone was just complete jokester and they gave like one sentence responses and i was like i sent it back to them and they just never responded but i mean that wasn't me cutting that was a never responding i think okay uh i think a good interview you could really coax out of anybody if you're willing to like put in the time and the effort well so that's the the text thing is what uh kind of strikes me because in person you just you just like, you get the vibe and you're like, okay, they're going to be a little bit difficult, but you kind of like warm up the room and they're good. When someone's not responsive over email or not, I don't know, not as specific or not as interesting as you think they could be, how do you get better answers out of them? Follow up endlessly until they either quit or they give you a good answer. I mean, what we also do sometimes is we'll put their interview on the site as a draft, which is inline comments like, oh, this is a really interesting answer. Like, care to give us some details besides what you gave us? So like, it would be awesome if you had like a chart or a graph here in your interview. So I think, you know, from the outside looking in, maybe it looks like people are magically just giving good answers, but sometimes you just have to coax them. And like you said, like in person, you do that by filling out the room and just like, you know, vibing off the other person over text, you just take the tedious time to point out what's wrong and how it can be better. Okay. Fair enough. All right. So question from Tom, what was the hard? So I mean, the question is what was the hardest with IndieHackers? But I think what he means is, what was the hardest thing about building IndieHackers? Managing my time early on, but I already kind of talked about that. What else was difficult building IndieHackers? I think doing it alone is difficult. And I'm super lucky because the site itself, in a very meta way way is about building startups. It's about starting companies. And the way that I look at it, my mental model for building a startup is that essentially your whole goal is not to quit. I saw a really good tweet the other day that was, here's the secret to success. Pick any idea, work on it for 10 years, and you will succeed. Just don't quit. So the way I look at a startup or any sort of company is like, imagine a race or a marathon where if you get to the finish line, you win, you know, depending on how skilled you are and how much you learn and how good your product is, the finish line might be further away or closer. But all you have to do is keep running and not quit. And I think when you are a solo founder, it's really easy to quit. I mean, every time you run into a hurdle, you're like, I can quit here. You know, I don't know how to get past this. And a lot of people end up quitting way too early just because they're not prepared for that. They think that the typical startup story is that you just succeed after a couple weeks and then you're like, yeah, and then it's set from there. And it's like, I've failed enough times to that. That's not the case. You don't win by quitting. But the content thing is, it's new for you, right? You hadn't done a content thing before. No, never. Right. And so content can feel like a treadmill. Yeah. It totally feels like a treadmill. And I think that's what I was talking about earlier with having that kind of rubric that I sent out. It really helped with that, but it never felt like, as long as I got the content under control, I never felt like I was on a treadmill. I felt like, okay, that's fine. I just need enough time every week to work on pushing the business forward. So I would have three or four days a week to work on advertising. And that was a huge hurdle. I almost quit when I had no idea how to do ad sales. Because I'm not a salesperson. I've never done any sales before. But after two months of trying it, I was like, hey, I'm pretty good at this. I'm sending cold emails to people and getting them on the phone and making friends. And people are buying ads on my website. It's working out. Same with the podcast. Never done it before. It ended up going pretty well. But back to what was hard about it, I think any time where I let myself dwell in solitude for way too long, it was when I would think about, this is hard. way too long it was when i would think about like this is hard when i would open up to the community and send an email and saying hey here's what i'm working on here's what's hard uh and get support and it suddenly was you know much easier and to go back to the marathon analogy you know if you're sort of running this marathon by yourself and you look around like no one else is running of course you're going to quit if it's hard right but if like a whole bunch of other people are running with you you know then suddenly you're the social proof of that just helps you continue so so by kind of you know forcing yourself to work in public you could stay motivated yep exactly and i think that's a good reason why you know i push people to be transparent and come on the site because you have very little to lose you have a lot to gain because people will you know identify with you you'll make friends uh people like your personal story they want to know what's going on behind the scenes and this whole whole corporate veal of always saying we and never sharing any numbers, it's just so boring. Who connects with that? Nobody wants to read that kind of stuff. Yeah, especially when you're on your own and just working at your little tiny bedroom office. Exactly. Unless you live in some sort of tech hub, most people around you don't know what you're doing. The internet's pervasive, but starting an internet business is still a pretty rare thing to do. And so I think being able to rely on some sort of online community, whether it's on IndieHackers or another site, if you can go somewhere and people are also doing what you're doing and you can tell them what you're up to and they can give you feedback and really just identify with you, then you're much less likely to quit. How do you maintain a positive community? I do very little, actually. I was worried about it because I've been a member of Hacker News for like eight or nine years. I have mixed feelings about it. I love it because the content there is good. People service really good links. The discussion is very interesting. There's a lot of smart people in the comments, but it's also super negative. I mean, the vibe is who can say the most contrarian negative thing first? That's going to get all the upvotes to almost everything that gets submitted. So I was worried about the same thing with IndieHackers, especially since so many people on IndieHackers came from Hacker News. But I think it's naturally a little bit self-policing because these are all people who are very serious about building businesses. They're people who've done it before, who've perhaps shared their project on Hacker News or Product Hunt or something and gotten negative comments and they know what it feels like. So they're the last people who are going to bash what other people post. They're not going to be negative assholes because they know what it feels like to be on the other side of it. If not the emotional intelligence, at least the experience to be like, oh, that sucks, maybe I should be careful and just give positive feedback or constructive criticism. So I've luckily not had to do very much at all to prevent people from from being negative and i also think the community it's not it's not a link posting community you don't go on nd hackers and just share a link to something and then say nothing else you actually have to have a discussion and so you're actually you know from a personal perspective saying hey here's what i built and here's what i did and i think it's a little bit harder to be an asshole and the person who wrote you know the post is also the person who submitted it yeah i think that's um it de-arms people even on hn when you get into the thread i advise people this all the time just like get into the comments yeah like people respond much more positively when they know you're in there and you're like sincerely want to engage it's like it's weird they're like oh this person made it onto the internet like Like, what do I do? MARK MANDELMANN, I didn't expect this. MARK MIRCHANDANI, delete account. So someone asked an interesting question, which is, would you advise starting indie hackers, meaning like a person who's getting started, to join an accelerator? MARK MANDELMANN, Yes, I would. I think, OK, so I've only done YC. I can only really vouch for YC. And so the boring answer is obviously depends on the accelerator. If it's Y Combinator, undoubtedly, yes, the advantages outweigh the disadvantages tenfold. And it really goes back to what is it that kills startups? People quitting. What do people very rarely do? Quit out of an accelerator when they're surrounded by other people doing this and investors are pushing you along. So for no other reason than that, I think it makes sense to join an accelerator. But also the mentorship that you're going to get, the advice that you're going to get. I'm really big on founders joining any sort of community. If you can find a way to position yourself around other people doing what you're doing, then you're going to increase the chances of your business succeeding. The caveat is, you know, usually accelerators come with like investment terms and investors, and you need to be aware of, you need to go into that with both eyes open. I spent some time doing contract work, and I worked for a lot of like VC funded startups for a few years. And it was so interesting and talking to like the other employees there, sometimes the founders there, they would build like a very good product that maybe 20 100 000 people were using people were paying for and then sometimes just crash and burn because you know the level of success they needed to reach in order to meet their investors expectations was so high right and so i think if you go into any sort of accelerator if you accept money from from investors you need to be aware that they're not yes the money might help you you know succeed and grow faster but at the same time it's also raising the bar for what like the minimum bar for success and if that bar gets raised too high to a degree that's like unrealistic for your product to hit if you're building a to-do list app and you know you need to be a billion dollar violation like good luck there aren't very many billion dollar to-do list apps you know yeah so i think you should be aware of that if you're going to join an accelerator yes that is a pro tip from silicon valley it's like no just know the terms of the deal like know the expectations it's not crazy but i think it's one of those themes that people are really attracted to with indie hackers because it's this unsaid like i don't think vcs are ever trying to be in the gotcha position because it doesn't work out for anyone if the company doesn't work but like when you set your expectations in life to like build this billion dollar company and you raise the money and then you realize that you're making a to-do list app you're not gonna hit that yeah and i think like a lot of it is i mean like i said earlier people just like hear one story you know they don't they don't really think think about what kind of deal they're making or why they're going that route or why they feel the need to build a billion-dollar company. And I agree with you as well. The VCs aren't super nefarious. They're not like, I want to trick everyone. But at the same time, their incentives are such that 90% of the time, they would rather have a whole bunch of people fail and a few people make it big than have everybody have kind of a middling result. And so if you're a founder, you have to ask yourself, you know, do I want to have a high risk of failure to have that one shot at the top? Or do I want to, you know, maybe make $10,000 or $20,000 a month or, you know, a small exit or something and then maybe go for the big shot? Which I think is like probably the more rational decision for most people i would imagine so yeah uh all right so there's another question from uh burt um are there other recipes for folks growing a side hustle or you know small business whatever you want to call it in europe compared to the u.s i don't think so the reason is because if you compare you know working on a side hustle uh building more of a high-growth startup, if you're trying to hit a billion-dollar valuation, what do you care about? You care about really what you need is this potent confluence of factors all pushing in the same direction. You need the best idea ever. You need the best team ever. You need a growing market that, for some some reason has no real competitors or a bunch of bumbling competitors. You need the best investors, the most money, a little bit of luck. You need everything to help you. Whereas if you're building a side hustle, if you're building a smaller business that still might be life-changing, but it doesn't need all the luck in the world and every factor to line up, then really all you need are just some solid business fundamentals. It's eminently learnable. And those are going to be the same no matter where you are, whether you're in Europe or the US. Like you still need to build something that people want. You still need to have some sort of marketing and distribution strategy. You still need to be able to manage your time and like not run out of money, et cetera. That doesn't change from place to place. The only thing that really changes is, you The number of people in your community who understand what you're doing, your access to capital if you want to raise money, legal things and taxes. But everywhere I've been, I mean, I went to South Africa. I talked to some indie hackers there. You're building a business for the internet. Your customers are everywhere. It doesn't matter where you live. Are you only interviewing SaaS companies? No. I interview the most random variety of companies. I tried early on to have some sort of rubric. And generally, if somebody emails me and they're like, hey, I've got a consultancy, I try to say, you know, it's not the best fit because you're really just trading dollars for hours. However, I think SaaS companies are kind of the most interesting. They're kind of the dream of people who want passive income and people who want the freedom that comes with that lifestyle. But there's lessons to be learned from other companies too a good one is scott's cheap flights who did one of the coolest text interviews on nd hackers uh it's basically this guy scott who found like super cheap flights for himself and all of his friends were like hey i want cheap flights too like how did you how did you go round trip to whatever dude like the venn diagram of like nerds and like airline hacking things hacking things, you wouldn't believe how many YC applications. It's like, we're going to blow your mind with this new mileage plan. People really like saving money on flights. It's a little insane. People will spend way more money saving money on time, saving money on flights than they could earn if they just worked. But anyway, Scott was super good at it. He built this email list of of you know his friends and colleagues really he was just sending the flight deals that he was finding for himself and it turned from like that tiny side project into like this massive business that's doing like four million dollars a year it's not sass at all right it's it's scott and his friends now and the people he's hired just scouring the internet and manually sending people there's no bot there's no there's no i I mean, that's it. And people pay to be part of this mailing list. They pay to be frequently sent cheap flights so they can go. It's totally worth it for them. So that's not a SaaS company. One of the coolest interviews ever. And again, it's like all the same business fundamentals. It makes something people want. He had to find a way to actually advertise this mailing list and get people on it. site is so like it's super slick super streamlined like the conversion rates are extremely high uh super transparent about everything you know like and it makes his emails fun because it's like hey it's scott here i feel like you're getting an email from just like a person that you know who's trying to help you out so that is really cool you spoke of uh the the nomad list guy before were there other role models for you when you were because i completely agree that it's so important uh we're having Pete Adney, Mr. Money Mustache, on the podcast. Oh, cool. And he's awesome. But I think his whole deal was so influential with people in that he's just like software engineer for 10 years, saved up like $600,000 or $700,000. I was like, I'm out. Yeah, like index fund, rely on the income from that. But I think he's just another example of just showing people the way. Were there other people that were kind of like showing you the way? Yeah, David Heinemeyer Hansen from Basecamp was a big one and Jason Freed. So I went to startup school in 09 and saw Jason Freed talk. But my favorite talk was DHH's talk the year before. He was just like, it was super entertaining. If you haven't seen it, you should watch it. But he completely just like dissed everybody there. And he was just like saying common sense things. Like, you know, you can build a business and telling people things they hadn't heard before. So whenever I felt low, I would watch it. I've probably seen that talk like 50 times just because it's so Who else? Peter Lovell was a big one I mentioned. I didn't have that many influences. When I was reading through the Hacker News threads to find examples, I found a lot of really cool examples. What they're doing is awesome and that inspired me to know that it was possible and keep going, but there isn't any one person. What about just the idea of making a content site? Was that like you were reading some, because HN is an aggregator right so was there one site that stood out like oh this is cool no i mean i think this is a big thing i tell people all the time like your product you shouldn't start by thinking about what your product is going to be and then and then you know making that what you should start is by figuring out what people want and then based on what people want you find the best possible way to to give them that right what people wanted in the situation was really two things they wanted to do what i was doing and like have some sort of easy way to research ideas for products and number two like i think people just found it entertaining to read these stories right and so like the conclusion i came to after seeing that was like okay what people if i really want to provide what people want it's going to be some sort of content site, right? Whether it's interviews, whether it's a podcast, whether it's videos, it's like completely up in the air. Like all of those are valid solutions to that problem. But like, you know, I for sure need to include some transparent revenue stats, right? For sure I need to get some like behind the scenes details. Like there are things that so I made sure to just do those things. But like I said, like I was, I'm a developer, like starting a content site sounded so boring to me. And I was so upset that that was the best idea that I came up with, but I was also excited about it. Is the backend of the site user-friendly at all? Are you like publishing from the terminal? It's not, it's not user-friendly at all. It was like the whole bus factor like you know if you get hit by a bus you know how can can you know your product stand up can someone else come in and the indie hackers yeah no yeah that's i'm just i just i look both ways when i cross the street exactly yeah we're wordpress now for that exact reason um all right uh are there common failures with a lot of these um a lot of these indie hacker founders that they they describe as you know like maybe something in the early days that they struggled with um that that's common between many of them yeah uh you hear the stats all the time like you know 90 of businesses fail yeah but i think like the earlier and earlier you go in the funnel the more failures you see like the ultimate like top of the funnel most failures you see is people who are interested in starting a business but never get started, not for lack of motivation or care, but because they don't know what the first step is, right? Or they are grossly misinformed about what the first step is. So they, for example, like I said earlier, spend five or ten minutes thinking up an idea every now and then, it doesn't come to them and they conclude that they're just not you know they just can't do it or it's like actually you should probably dedicate like three or four days to come up with an idea because it's this inflection point that's going to control the next few years of your life you know uh and it's not easy to come up with one off the top of your head so people will get like kind of frustrated by that and stop or super easy um you know not not having traction in the early days super frustrating to people and they quit so consistently i mean i sound like a broken record here but it's like you know the more times i say it hopefully the more we'll sink in people quit way too early way before they should quit you know like your idea some people think their ideas are terrible like guys my idea was so flawed i'll tell me their idea i'm like that's a great idea you just have to actually execute on it so uh i think that hurts the other thing is i think people don't read enough and i i get the opposite of this often i hear people say oh stop reading and just start doing that's true but i think if you're the kind of person who is going to have the determination and the grit to actually start a successful startup, then you're probably not going to quit because you spent too much time reading up front. Like, that's not going to be what stops you for that type of person. But the benefits from reading are massive because starting a startup is not intuitive. If it was intuitive, then there wouldn't be so many guides and books to doing it. Everything you did that felt right would just work. Yeah. Right. If it was intuitive, then there wouldn't be so many guides and books to doing it. And everything you did that felt right would just work. But anytime you see an industry that's populated with intelligent people, and yet most of them are still failing, it's probably worth taking a step back to say, like, there's something going on here that people don't realize. And I should read and learn from other people's mistakes instead of repeating their mistakes and learning from my own horrible experiences. And that's not to say that experience is not a good teacher so what do you tell someone when they're like okay i'm in like i'm subscribed to your like workout plan i'm gonna spend four days and get my idea what do you tell them to read i tell them to read the indie hackers interviews which are just a better version of the same agent posts that i was reading uh i tell them to post on the forum, share what you're doing, right? Don't go into a black hole and then, you know, emerge two months later and be like, I never did find an idea. Like, why don't you just keep a list of what you were saying, coming up with and post them on the forum, and people are happy to tell you what they think, what you should do next, etc. And I think there's this kind of overwhelming assumption that we're just alone and that you can't share because there's not that many communities where people do this i mean i get it it's not a common thing people just aren't used to it uh so i'm trying to reverse that someone on the indie hackers forum said earlier uh that they would like it if i made the forum a little bit more structured and created a specific way to ask for feedback because he felt spammy he's like oh i don't like spamming people and asking. Like, that's the entire point of this forum is for you to ask these questions. And it feels spammy. So I think I've underestimated a little bit how much it can be scary or feel like not, just not normal to ask people for like transparent advice on what's going on. But that's my advice to people. You know, as long as you have mentors and people who know what they're talking about, who can help you out and as long as you don't quit you know then like even if you do things wrong you're going to get some good advice and you'll be able to correct okay were there any books that guided you i love like all the most popular startup books lean startup is great by eric reese i like uh crossing the chasm it's a little bit older it was like kind of the lean startup of the 90s i think but uh still great advice there and then, you know, the early adopters and all the way through like the mainstream and late adopters and the difference between appealing to those different segments, which I think is extremely important for people to know. I like Peter Thiel's Zero to One. I think the thing that trips a lot of people up while I'm talking about these books is that not every book is going to tell you who it's written for. If you read Zero to One, that book is written for high growth startups. It's got a lot of advice in there that's terrible if you're trying to bootstrap your way to success. And so people will come in and they'll say, you know, I did this thing and it's not working. Why isn't it working? Because that's advice that does not apply to you. But I think if you're careful and you understand, okay, who was this written for and what you know nuggets can i take away then almost all these books have some some nugget of advice that's useful uh hooked by near y'all really cool book talks all about the psychology of habit forming products and like what people what gets people coming back why do we form how habits etc totally unaware of that until i had them on my podcast and i read the book and ryan hoover helped like edit it as well uh it's probably my product hunt is so addictive yeah but a really cool book definitely worth a read for everybody uh and also books outside of the startup echo chamber i have so many people who say you know corlin i've got this idea for a you know an app that will let you like place an order at your local coffee shop before you get there and it's like i hear this idea like seven times a week and the reason is because everybody's reading the exact same books and the exact same blog posts and living in the exact same place and so if you all the same inputs you're gonna have like the same ideas as everybody else totally so like if you really want to come up with something creative like not only should you invest the time to think about it but like travel you know go visit a different culture read some fiction or sci-fi or something like to get your creative juices flowing. Don't only read, uh, startup books. Yeah. I think you have to have an opinion outside of the norm. You do. Because it's true. Like, yeah, just hang out here long enough and it's the same ideas. Exactly. Yeah. Um, do any of the, uh, so this is a Cameron Reynoldson. Um, how often do you see indie hacker projects transition from lifestyle businesses to startups? Or do they ever? Yeah, all the time. I mean, Scotch Cheap Flights, great example. Totally. Okay, so it depends on your definition of lifestyle business. If you mean lifestyle business is any business that makes money and a startup is someone who's raised a lot of money from venture capitalists, I actually don't see that very often very rarely does somebody who is killing it and making millions of dollars decide that they're going to raise a ton of capital and i think most of those cases are pretty famous but i see the opposite actually often which is companies will raise one round and then they won't raise any more money they're like yeah we're killing. We don't need to raise any more money. We understand what level our investors expect us to get to. We're comfortable with that. Zapier is a good example. I had Wade on the podcast. They're doing extremely well. We just need to raise any money. Kevin Hale and Lufu did the same thing back in the day. And I also see a lot of side projects that start off my income and make a few thousand bucks a month that turn into you know i'm quitting my job this is it full-time this guy mike parham at he created an app called sidekick it's basically like a background job processor for developers so that they can run tasks in the background on their server and make their websites faster he was doing it on the side of his business but he was kind of mixing it with this business and then he quit his job and was like i'm not gonna work my full-time job anymore this is like taking off right and that's kind of the dream because now he's got the freedom to work on whatever he wants from wherever he wants for whatever hours he wants and like there's no upside on his income he's making something like a million something dollars a year as a solo developer just doing what he likes there you go so not not a typical story like not everybody makes a million dollars a year but uh you know that definitely went from like side project and hobby into like more than a full that's a real struggle like i know a bunch of software developers that have their like you know cushy internet job and have a side thing and they they struggle to figure out like at what point do you really switch and yeah like is that a and is there like an advice section in the forum that people like struggle with this question or is this actually more rare yeah i don't know it's very common and indie hackers as it exists right now it's not very prescriptive like it's not organized into an answer to every specific question you might have it's more free-flowing and so every now and then a topic might pop up about that and people will get all sorts of good responses but my personal advice would be uh it really depends on the level of risk that you want and it's harder once you're a developer or even a non-developer and some job where it's cushy and you're making money like when i first moved out here i was like the stereotypical like you know 22 year old eating ramen noodles like i didn't care what kind of apartment i lived in yeah and then i started shopping at whole foods and you know moving into better apartments yeah now it's like okay i can't i can't quit my job or do something unless I have a really good idea that's really working out. And I empathize with people who are in that situation. I really think that you should have some form of product market fit. You should be confident that your product can work. If you've launched a side project and no one's using it yet and you're just excited to code on it, that's probably premature for you to leave your job. Every software engineer really likes coding their own thing. It's fun. But you really need to get to the point where you've found a way to get people to your app. You've found a way to actually grow your revenue and you can say, okay, at this rate it's a matter of time. I think that's helpful. I realize that it's kind of intimidating if you're not a person who would describe yourself as a business person. If you're like, I write code. I have no idea what it means to do business. Well, really, there's no such thing. It's just a collection of individual tasks, like finding people to come to your app, which is, if you read enough examples, you'll start to see the patterns. You'll start to see what options are available to you and so i would encourage people not to be worried that they don't have like experience here just make sure to read and learn from what other people are doing make sure that you are persistent and you don't quit at the first sign of distress and then you know if things start working it'll be pretty obvious right with mike parham it was like hey i'm making 50k a year from my app you know 100k a year now wow it's only been two months or you know with scott with scott cheap flights it's like you know suddenly i'm making like thousands of dollars i can hire somebody you know why do i need to work my job yeah also like the if you're a talented developer the downside is pretty low right you know ideally it makes enough money to sustain you you spend six months on it and if it doesn't work out you're gonna get another job exactly i mean that's what i did i was contracting uh i quit and i had enough savings to live for like a year or two in san francisco which could have got me much further in any other city like i do not recommend trying to bootstrap in san francisco paying ridiculous rent here uh but ultimately it's like okay i'm confident that if things don't go well like i'll have a backup plan. It's much harder if you're in a different situation. MARK MANDELMANN Yeah, for sure. How are things going now that you're at Stripe? MARK MIRCHANDANI Awesome. MARK MIRCHANDANI They're not watching. MARK MIRCHANDANI Stripe is a great company. It's so funny because the acquisition happened completely out of the blue from Patrick. But it's really the perfect union. I think some people, you know, every now and then will be skeptical, especially in hacker news, about any sort of acquisition. Like, you know, what's the real play here? I think it was obviously good for me. It's good for Stripe. And it's good for the indie hackers it's good for the IndieHackers community, for IndieHackers to be under Stripe. Specifically, if you look at Stripe's goals and incentives here, Patrick Collison came in on the Hacker News thread that announced the acquisition and made the top comment where he just said flat out, here's why we're acquiring IndieHackers. It was super straightforward, which is Stripe does better if more people are starting companies and those companies are more successful, NDHackers' mission is to help more people start companies and be more successful. There's no man behind the curtain there. There's no secret thing going on. And also, just examining a world... NDHackers without Stripe versus NDHackers at Stripe. So what I was doing back in February and March is spending an inordinate amount of my time finding advertisers, putting ads in my my newsletter putting ads on the website putting ads on the forum ads as much as they might fund a site they don't make a site web like they'll make it better no one is happy to get a newsletter that's got ads in it doesn't help anyone right it didn't help me uh to do anything other than pick up the ability to do like pay rent yeah and pay rent right but like ultimately at stripe i got a salary. I don't have to worry about paying rent. I'm not worried that IndieHacker is going to go under. They're not going to shut the website down. They did not buy it to shut it down. They did not buy it for it to become some super profitable thing in the next six months or anything. So the long term is pretty much set. And now I can just focus 100% on my original mission, which is just helping people start companies and showing that there's another way to do it that's not the story that we've all heard. So Stripe's been super fun. They're really hands off. I think I've met with Patrick like three times since I've joined in the last six months. And he's a super smart guy. We just brainstorm together and think about how to make the site impactful. So it's really the perfect acquire. And the incentives are aligned perfectly. There's nothing that i want to do that they don't also want to do that's great do you have any um side projects going on right now no okay if you could start any side projects which one would you be jumping what would i start it's so funny tell me it's gonna be a coin it needs to be it would be an ico the indie hackers ico really i don't know actually you know what? I think I would, my side project would be, I would follow the same formula I followed last time. I need to spend four days, get my brand into that mode where it's actually good at this. It's like riding a bicycle. If you haven't ridden a while and you're going to suck, but after you pedal for a while, you get good. Coming up with an idea, you need to see opportunities for things where if that existed, you would pay for it for sure. I'm trying to manage my Twitter account. It's just a hassle to do that and also do all the other things. I really want better tools for social media. A lot of tools for social media already exist, and a lot of them are wildly popular and profitable. So I've got some ideas in that area. It's hard to say, but I think maybe the day will come where I work on a side project on the side of IndieHackers. We'll see. I have way too much to do now. And a lot of the stuff that I'm doing for IndieHackers is almost side project-ish. My life hasn't changed very much at all. I mean, I'm still working at home on IndieHackers. I'm still working on schedule. Yeah, exactly. exactly so it's not it's not too different cool all right i don't have any more questions cool thanks for coming in yeah it was fun cool